Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
3 
2.0 Glossary 
 
Definitions have been provided to help clarify 
the concepts discussed in this document. While 
some definitions used vary among companies, 
geographic location, etc., the definitions 
described below are consistently used within this 
technical report document. Where a definition is 
based on another published source, the source is 
cited. 
 
Accuracy 
A Closeness of the test results or measurement 
response obtained by the AMM/RMM to a 
known value obtained by the CMM or a 
reference material appropriate for the method, to 
be demonstrated across the dynamic 
(operational) range of the method. Accuracy is 
usually evaluated in quantitative methods. 
Activation 
Incubation of sample to be tested (typically) in 
liquid-nutrient media in order to (re)activate the 
metabolism of the viable microorganisms 
(contaminants), including spores that may be 
present in the sample. Proliferation of the viable 
microorganisms (contaminants) that may be 
present in the sample should be avoided because 
it may overestimate the cell number when 
conducting microbial enumeration.  
Note: Also known as Activation Phase or 
Activation Step. 
Alternative or Rapid Microbiological Methods 
(AMM/RMM) 
Methods that differ from the CMM (e.g., USP 
General Notice 6.30). These AMM/RMMs use 
technology that differs in measurement end 
points, automation, and software for managing 
testing processes and analyzing the resulting 
quantitative, qualitative, and microbial 
identification data. Such AMM/RMMs must 
undergo full validation and demonstrate 
comparable results to the CMMs within 
acceptable limits, established on a case-by-case 
basis.  
Note: Within TR 33, the terms "alternative 
method," "rapid microbiological method," and 
"rapid method," are addressed as 
interchangeable terms and are represented by the 
acronym “AMM/RMM”.  
Analytical Quality by Design (AQbD) 
Approach that aims to ensure the quality of a 
product by employing statistical, analytical, and 
risk-management methodology in the design, 
development, and manufacturing of medicines. 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
A scientific discipline established at the 
intersection of computer science, applied 
mathematics, and engineering, and dedicated to 
the development of systems capable of 
performing tasks traditionally requiring human 
intelligence. From a functional perspective, AI 
can be defined as the simulation or 
approximation of human intelligence in 
machines. AI encompasses machine-driven 
learning, reasoning, and perception, and is 
widely used across various industries, including 
finance and life sciences. 
 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
4 
Automation 
The use of technology to improve the efficiency, 
accuracy, and reproducibility of processes. By 
replacing manual work with automation, it 
increases productivity, reduces errors, and 
ensures more consistent results, while also 
speeding up turnaround times.  
Biomarker 
A measurable characteristic or molecule that 
indicates the presence, activity, or identity of 
microorganisms in a specific environment or 
sample. 
Colony-Forming Unit (CFU) 
One or more viable microorganisms that 
produce a visible, discrete growth entity on a 
semisolid, agar-based microbiological medium 
and under conditions of incubation and is used 
as the basis for quantitative enumeration (e.g., 
CFU/g or mL).  
Comparability 
Demonstration that the qualitative or 
quantitative detection of microorganisms, related 
analyte, or measurement response in the 
AMM/RMM is equivalent, non-inferior or not 
statistically different than the detection of 
microorganisms in the existing test method, 
depending on the statistical method used to 
compare the data. 
Conventional Microbiological Method (CMM) 
A classical or traditional growth-based method, 
such as enumeration on an agar plate or 
detection in a liquid broth when incubated for a 
specified time and temperature. These methods 
are used in USP 〈51〉, 〈60〉, 〈61〉, 〈62〉, 〈63〉, and 
〈71〉 which are harmonized with the Japanese 
Pharmacopoeia (JP) and European 
Pharmacopeia (EP) pharmacopeial procedures.  
Note: Throughout this document the term 
“conventional” is used and is understood to 
mean compendial, classic, existing, or 
traditional.  
 
Equivalence 
When the test results from two procedures are 
sufficiently similar for their intended purpose; 
demonstrating equivalence necessitates a 
predefined criterion for the level of similarity 
required. This evaluation generally involves a 
comparability testing study that produces 
comparative data, the test results of which are 
then subjected to statistical analysis. 
Exclusivity 
The capacity of an assay to differentiate a non-
target microorganism from a target 
microorganisms. 
False Negative 
A test result that is incorrectly determined as 
negative (e.g., the absence of a viable microbial 
detection result when viable microorganisms are 
present).  
False Positive 
A test result that is incorrectly determined as 
positive (e.g., a viable microbial detection result 
when viable microorganisms are not present).  
In-Line Measurements 
Measurements taken within the process stream 
by placing measuring devices, typically sensors, 
directly in contact with or into the process 
stream. No portions of the material are therefore 
removed from the process stream. 
Measurements must also be nondetrimental to 
the product. Measurements can be obtained in 
real time or close to real time. 
Independent Samples (Determinations) 
Samples selected from the same population or 
different populations that have no effect on one 
another, that is, no correlation exists between the 
samples. 
Inclusivity 
The ability of an assay to detect a target 
microorganism. 
 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
5 
Intermediate Precision 
Use of the AMM/RMM applied to different 
sample preparations tested in the same 
laboratory under conditions of maximum 
variability (e.g., different analysts, different 
reagents, different equipment (if available) 
and/or testing on different days). 
Installation Qualification (IQ)  
Provides documented evidence that the 
equipment is received as designed and specified, 
that it is properly and safely installed with the 
correct utilities in the selected environment, and 
that the environment is suitable for the operation 
and use of the equipment. 
Laboratory Information Management System 
(LIMS) 
Software-based solution with features that 
support a modern laboratory’s operations by 
managing data related to sample experiments 
and instruments.  
Limit of Detection (LoD) 
The lowest concentration of microorganisms, 
related analyte, or measurement response in a 
test sample that can be reliably detected, but not 
necessarily quantified, under defined 
experimental conditions.  
Note: Can be referred to as sensitivity. 
Limit of Quantification (LoQ) 
The lowest number of microorganisms, related 
analyte, or measurement response in a test 
sample that can be enumerated with acceptable 
accuracy and precision under defined 
experimental conditions. 
Linearity 
The ability to produce results that are 
proportional to the concentration of 
microorganisms present, related analyte, or 
measurement response in the sample within a 
given range. 
Machine Learning (ML) 
A specialized branch of artificial intelligence 
(AI) that utilizes algorithms and statistical 
models to process data, generate insights, make 
predictions, and provide recommendations 
within complex datasets. In the pharmaceutical 
industry, ML identifies patterns, trends, and 
anomalies within complex datasets derived from 
drug discovery, clinical trials, manufacturing, 
regulatory compliance, pharmacovigilance, and 
patient outcomes.  
Method Suitability 
Demonstration of a lack of enhancement or 
inhibition by the product on the signal generated 
by the method. 
Microbial Identification 
The identification of a microbial isolate to genus 
or species level. 
Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) 
A group of technologies that allows thousands to 
billions of DNA fragments to be simultaneously 
and independently sequenced.  
Note: Also known as high-throughput or massive 
parallel sequencing. 
Non-Inferiority 
The hypothesis-testing framework used to 
demonstrate empirically that the AMM/RMM is 
not unacceptably worse on a specific feature 
(e.g., detection or decision-making) than the 
CMM by using a pre-specified non-inferiority 
margin.  
On-Line Measurements  
Sensor-based measurements made under real-
time conditions by diverting a portion of the 
material from the process stream directly into a 
measuring device and the results are made 
available after a minimal time delay. 
Depending on the nature of the test, for example, 
whether or not it is detrimental to the product, 
the diverted portion may be returned to the 
process stream; otherwise, it is discarded.  
Note: Also referred to as “real-time 
measurements.” 
 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
6 
Operational Qualification (OQ) 
Provides documented verification that the 
equipment, as installed in the selected 
environment, performs effectively and 
reproducibly as intended throughout the 
anticipated or representative operational ranges, 
defined limits and tolerances. The OQ is also the 
focal point for the majority of the computer 
system, software and security validation 
activities. 
Performance Qualification (PQ) 
Provides documented evidence that the 
instrumentation, as installed, (and the method if 
applicable) consistently performs in accordance 
with predetermined criteria and thereby yields 
correct and appropriate results. 
Precision 
The degree of agreement among individual test 
results as demonstrated by repeatability, 
intermediate precision (ruggedness) or 
reproducibility.  
Primary Validation  
Validation usually performed by the supplier, 
typically in the absence of a test sample, 
demonstrating that the system or technology is 
adequate in detecting the intended target.  
Process Analytical Technology (PAT) 
A system that allows for the design, analysis, 
and control of manufacturing through real-time 
QC and performance attribute measurements. 
Qualification 
A generic term defining the activity of 
confirming the successful achievement of 
defined prerequisites required for validation. 
Note: In TR 33, this term is applied to the 
training of personnel and the commissioning of 
process equipment. (See IQ, OQ, PQ.) 
Quality 
The degree to which a product, system, or 
process consistently fulfills established 
requirements and is suitable for its intended use. 
Quality by Design (QbD) 
Framework enabling the attainment of the 
desired state; a systematic approach to 
development that begins with predefined 
objectives and emphasizes product and process 
understanding and process control based on 
sound science and quality risk management.  
Quality Risk Management (QRM) 
A systematic process for the assessment, control, 
communication, and review of risks to the 
quality of the drug product across the product 
lifecycle.  
Range 
The interval between the upper and lower levels 
of microorganisms, related analyte, or 
measurement response that have been 
demonstrated to be determined with accuracy, 
precision, and linearity. 
Repeatability 
Degree of agreement among individual test 
results when the procedure is applied repeatedly 
to multiple samplings under the same operating 
conditions. 
Reproducibility 
The precision among multiple laboratories (i.e., 
collaborative studies, usually applied to 
standardization of methodology). 
Risk 
The combination of the probability of the 
occurrence of harm and the severity of that 
harm.  
Risk Assessment 
A systematic process of organizing information 
to support a risk decision to be made within a 
risk management process. It consists of the 
identification of hazards and the analysis and 
evaluation of risks associated with exposure to 
those hazards. 
 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
7 
Robustness 
A method’s capacity to remain unaffected by 
small but deliberate variations in method 
parameters while providing an indication of its 
reliability during normal usage. 
Ruggedness 
The degree of intermediate precision or 
reproducibility of test results obtained by 
assessing the same samples under a variety of 
normal test conditions.  
Severity 
A measure of the possible consequences of a 
hazard. 
Specificity 
The ability of an analytical procedure to 
accurately measure or detect the required range 
of microorganisms that may be present in the 
sample under test. 
Superiority 
The ability to outperform the conventional or 
existing method in terms of detection (i.e., 
presence or absence of the targeted 
microorganisms) or enumeration (i.e., microbial 
count of viable microorganisms) including a 
reduced time to results. 
Note: The superiority may be so obvious that a 
statistical comparison would not be necessary. 
Time to Result (TTR) 
Time required to complete testing and obtain a 
result that can be used to support a conclusion 
regarding potential contamination of the sample 
test. 
Validation  
Demonstrating and documenting that the 
instrumentation as installed (and the method if 
applicable) functions effectively and is 
appropriate for its intended purpose. Formal 
validations are conducted prospectively 
following a written plan that includes justifiable 
acceptance criteria for the validation procedures.  
Verification 
Verification involves applying the required 
analytical performance characteristics outlined 
in the primary method validation to obtain 
reliable data for specific sample types, 
environments, or equipment, rather than 
duplicating the validation process. 
 
 
 
 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
8 
2.1 Abbreviations 
ANOVA Analysis of Variance 
AMM*  
Alternative Microbiological Method 
ATMP  
Advanced Therapy Medicinal Products 
ATP 
 
Adenosine Triphosphate 
BFPC  
Biofluorescent Particle Counters 
CFU 
 
Colony-Forming Units 
CMM  
Conventional Microbiological Method 
EM 
 
Environmental Monitoring 
FT-IR  
Fourier-Transform Infrared 
Spectroscopy 
GMP  
Good Manufacturing Practice 
gMPN  
Generalized Most Probable Number 
IQ 
 
Installation Qualification 
LIMS  
Laboratory Information Management 
System 
LoD 
 
Limit of Detection 
LoQ 
 
Limit of Quantification 
MALDI-  Matrix-Assisted Laser 
TOF MS Desorption/Ionization Time-of-Flight 
Mass Spectrometry 
MPL  
Most Probable Limit 
MPN  
Most Probable Number 
NADH  
Nicotinamide Adenine Dinucleotide 
plus Hydrogen 
NAT 
 
Nucleic Acid Amplification 
Techniques 
OOT  
Out-of-Trend 
OQ 
 
Operational Qualification 
POC 
 
Proof of Concept 
PCR 
 
Polymerase Chain Reaction 
PQ 
 
Performance Qualification 
QC 
 
Quality Control 
QRM  
Quality Risk Management 
RMM*  
Rapid Microbiological Method 
TTR 
 
Time to Result 
UV 
 
Ultraviolet 
VBNC  
Viable but Nonculturable 
 
*Note: In this document, the abbreviation AMM/RMM is used to indicate that both AMMs and RMMs are 
being discussed.
 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.
