Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
9 
3.0 Conventional Microbiology and the Move Toward 
Alternative/Rapid Microbiological Methods 
For decades, conventional techniques such as culture-based methods and microscopy have been used in 
pharmaceutical microbiological QC laboratories to assess the quality of pharmaceutical products. Many of 
these methods are still an essential component of regulatory guidance documents (e.g., pharmacopeias). 
However, technological advancements have ushered in a new era where AMM/RMMs, using alternative 
readout-technologies and molecular biology tools, are revolutionizing the way microbiologists assess the 
quality of pharmaceutical products. Section 3.0 provides an overview of what aspects should be considered 
when implementing AMM/RMMs. 
3.1 Conventional Microbiological Methods 
Conventional pharmaceutical microbiology methods are comparatively simple growth-based techniques 
encompassing little technology and are limited in their scope of detection. These methods for the detection, 
enumeration, or identification of bacteria, yeast, and mold are applicable to sterility testing, antimicrobial or 
preservative effectiveness testing, environmental monitoring (EM), in-process control and/or raw material(s) 
bioburden monitoring, finished product enumeration and specified organisms, presence/absence testing 
including aseptic process simulation, bioburden testing of pharmaceutical-grade water and gases, and 
microbial identification. Biopharmaceutical production processes based on the use of cell cultures also 
require the industry to test for the presence of other adventitious microbiological agents such as viruses and 
mycoplasma in cell sources (cell banks), production-cell cultures, in-process samples, or finished products. 
Each of these growth-based techniques have primarily relied on basic microbiological media for culturing 
(e.g., bioburden, presence/absence testing relying on trypticase soy broth/agar for aerobic bacteria, 
Sabouraud’s dextrose broth/agar for fungal growth, and fluid thioglycolate medium for anaerobic 
microorganisms, and Haylfick, Frey or Friis media for mycoplasma detection). These media have provided 
the basis for qualitative and quantitative microbial assays for microbial safety and quality product release, 
validation of in-process microbial tests, and sterilization validation for pharmaceuticals and medical devices 
in the 20th century. The accuracy and precision of these CMM are affected by the distribution of 
microorganisms in the test samples, cellular arrangement, available sample volume, the method itself 
including the media (supplier and/or quality of individual components), and the ability of microorganism 
growth.  
Although the growth of microbial cells on agar surfaces or in liquid media provides the laboratory with 
critical information about the amount and type of organisms that may be present in a sample under 
evaluation, the time to result (TTR) is usually longer than desired. Days may elapse before microbial 
colonies are visually detected and, in many cases, confluent growth on agar plates prevents individual 
organisms from being isolated, necessitating their subculture onto additional agar media, delaying the TTR 
even further. This delay may hamper the industry in making timely forward-processing or good 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
10 
manufacturing practice (GMP) release decisions, in timely investigations of events, and in support of 
confirming that manufacturing processes are in a microbiological state of control.  
Additionally, environmental factors can affect the ability of microorganisms to replicate when cultured on 
microbiological media. These factors include stress due to nutrient deprivation or exposure to sublethal 
concentrations of antimicrobial agents such as preservatives, disinfectants, heat, or decontaminating gases. 
Furthermore, certain pharmaceutical manufacturing processes can impact microorganisms. As a result of 
any of these stressors, the physiologically injured microorganisms might not replicate when cultured on 
microbiological media, because the media and/or incubation parameters may not be optimal for the 
resuscitation and subsequent proliferation of organisms that may be present. The inability of stressed 
microorganisms, or even nonstressed microorganisms, to grow in microbiological media has also been 
termed viable but nonculturable (VBNC). Additionally, when microorganisms experience unfavorable 
growth conditions, it can induce some cells into dormancy, and these cells will not grow. VBNC and 
dormancy states are further discussed in the public literature (7, 8).  
For these reasons, and to mitigate the limitations of CMMs as outlined in Section 3.0, the QC 
microbiological laboratory should look toward developing innovative approaches for the collection, 
detection, quantification, and identification of microorganisms to take advantage of emerging technologies.  
From a quality risk management (QRM) perspective, the pharmaceutical/biopharmaceutical industry can 
benefit from implementing AMM/RMM testing to:  
• 
Improve TTR for time-sensitive products (e.g., ATMPs, compounded drugs, nuclear medicine 
products, short-shelf-life or immediate-medical-need products, response to public health 
emergencies)  
• 
Design and continuously improve robust processes that prevent contamination 
• 
Ensure that a state of microbial control is maintained  
• 
Develop strategies with earlier detection of contamination for faster investigation resolutions 
• 
Monitor manufacturing environments, utilities, or processes to detect adverse microbiological 
trends or contamination in real time to avoid processing at risk  
• 
Improve data integrity 
• 
Evaluate appropriate sampling points for process improvement 
Quality risk management principles are recommended by a number of quality and regulatory industry guides 
that have a direct impact on microbiological monitoring and control, for example, the European 
Commission’s Annex 1: Manufacture of Sterile Medicinal Products, EudraLex-Volume4-EU Guidelines for 
Good Manufacturing Practice for Medicinal Products for Human and Veterinary Use (2022) (EU GMP 
Annex 1) (9). Other examples are FDA’s Pharmaceutical cGMPs for the 21st Century—A Risk-Based 
Approach and Guidance for Industry: Process Analytical Technology, A Framework for Innovative 
Pharmaceutical Development, Manufacture, and Quality Assurance, which implies that using a scientific 
framework to find ways of mitigating risk while facilitating continuous improvement and innovation in 
pharmaceutical manufacturing is a key public health objective (10, 11). Implementation of AMM/RMM, as 
described in USP General Chapter ⟨1071⟩ Rapid Microbial Tests for Release of Sterile Short-Life Products: 
A Risk-Based Approach, supports the medical and quality needs of time-critical patient therapies (12). 
These initiatives further promote the use of the latest scientific advances in manufacturing and technology, 
and this can apply to the implementation of AMM/RMMs and testing strategies.  
 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
11 
3.2 Introduction to Alternative/Rapid Microbiological Methods  
AMM/RMMs are based on a wide variety of scientific principles and can be used for a number of testing 
applications (13). Technologies can detect the presence of diverse types of microorganisms or a specific 
microbial species (qualitative), enumerate the number of microorganisms present in a sample (quantitative), 
or identify microbial cultures to the genus, species, and strain levels. The manner in which microorganisms 
are detected, quantified, or identified will depend on the specific technology, procedures, and/or 
instrumentation employed. Additionally, a number of these methods are considered to be more sensitive, 
accurate, precise, and reproducible, with improved data integrity, when compared with conventional, 
growth-based methods. Some methods are fully or semiautomated, offer increased sample throughput and 
less analyst hands-on time, provide significantly reduced TTR (e.g., from days to hours or minutes) and, for 
a few technologies, afford results in real-time. A more thorough review of technology platforms and the 
science behind these methods is provided in Section 4.0. 
3.3 Regulatory Perspectives 
AMM/RMMs have been understood, accepted, and encouraged by regulatory authorities in numerous 
regions across the globe (14). Various regulatory agencies, including the United States, Europe, and Japan, 
have developed written guidance on the validation and implementation of AMM/RMM. Regulators will 
generally accept a change in testing procedure if the change has been proven to be comparable to, superior 
to, and/or noninferior to the CMMs currently in place. While TR 33 contains recommendations for the 
validation studies to demonstrate acceptability of the AMM/RMM, the final decision on acceptance may be 
made by the affected regulatory agencies, for example, if the CMM is incorporated in a previously approved 
regulatory dossier. However, there are also instances where a formal regulatory submission may not be 
necessary, but validation would be expected and may be assessed during site inspection, especially for test 
samples that would not necessarily require a formal submission (e.g., in-process, raw material, water, EM 
samples) (15). In order to develop an appropriate strategy for the validation and implementation of these 
methods, it is important to fully understand the current regulatory expectations and specific details of the 
associated product dossier. Therefore, it is highly recommended that an open dialogue between the 
interested parties (i.e., the firm intending to implement the AMM/RMM and the relevant regulatory 
authority) be initiated early in the planning process. This dialogue can include discussions about the 
proposed method, impacted products, validation approach, and acceptance criteria, as well as regulatory 
submission requirements. Additionally, in current practice, this dialogue has been very helpful and has 
enabled the potential AMM/RMM users to move forward with greater assurance that they will be successful 
in gaining regulatory approval, when required. 
A variety of different perspectives exist on AMM/RMM validation and submission strategies, depending on 
the regulatory body with which a firm’s products are registered, and/or which local inspectorate is 
responsible for conducting GMP audits at a firm’s manufacturing facilities. Sections 3.3.1–3.3.5 summarize 
the most current regulatory expectations for validation, submission, and implementation; however, it is 
always recommended to monitor any regulatory updates or changes in this area, as appropriate. 
Note: If and when a new technology becomes a conventional test, prior approval may not be required for 
the test. Firms should follow the directions in the conventional pharmacopeial chapters to demonstrate a 
test’s suitability for use. 
 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
12 
3.3.1 United States 
The FDA has been accepting AMM/RMMs for several years, and this position is echoed in a variety of 
guidance documents and quality initiatives. For example, FDA’s Guidance for Industry: Sterile Drug 
Products Produced by Aseptic Processing – Current Good Manufacturing Practice recommends the use of 
rapid genotypic methods for microbial identification, as these methods have been shown to be more accurate 
and precise than biochemical and phenotypic techniques. The guidance also states that these methods are 
especially valuable for investigations into significant microbiological adverse events, such as sterility test 
failures and contaminated media fills. In addition, it confirms that other suitable microbiological tests (e.g., 
AMM/RMMs) can be considered for EM, in-process control testing, and finished-product release testing 
after it has been demonstrated that these new methods are comparable or better than CMM (16). 
In 2012, FDA's Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research amended 21 CFR 610.12 General Biological 
Products Standards: Sterility, to allow the use of new sterility test methods that yield accurate and reliable 
test results (17). In 2020, the Center published the Guidance for Industry: Chemistry, Manufacturing, and 
Control (CMC) Information for Human Gene Therapy Investigational New Drug Applications (INDs), 
where alternate sterility tests may be acceptable for certain types of products administered fresh or with 
limited hold time between final formulation and patient administration (18). 
A separate FDA initiative known as the Strategic Plan for Regulatory Science (2011), calls for the 
development of sensitive, rapid, and high-throughput methods to detect, identify, and enumerate microbial 
contaminants and validate their utility in assessing product sterility (19).  
The FDA has multiple pathways to facilitate formal meetings for drug products under the Prescription Drug 
User Fee Act (PDUFA), Generic Drug User Fee Act (GDUFA), Medical Device User Fee Act (MDUFA), 
or Biosimilar User Fee Act (BsUFA) (20-23). Another pathway is Type-C meetings which are commonly 
used for pre-submission alignment or marketed product changes related to ARMM to de-risk the validation 
strategy and obtain written feedback. INitial Targeted Engagement for Regulatory Advice on Center for 
Biologics Evaluation and Research/Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CBER/CDER) ProducTs 
(INTERACT) meetings are appropriate for pre-IND stage discussions on ARMM/RMM. To facilitate an 
effective meeting, include a clear statement of intent, a list of specific questions, an assessment of 
product/patient risk, a proposed validation strategy and a feasibility data set. One notable limitation of these 
meeting pathways is that they must be related to an application. Another useful pathway that exists in FDA 
for truly novel methods is the Emerging Technology Program, which is a collaborative program between the 
Agency and industry representatives to facilitate discussion of potential regulatory issues prior to 
implementation of a new technology (24). 
Finally, the Agency recognizes that examining the suitability of an AMM/RMM may necessitate the use of 
the technology on production equipment and processes. The Guidance for Industry PAT - A Framework for 
Innovative Pharmaceutical Development, Manufacturing, and Quality Assurance provides advice to 
stakeholders on this topic, including that such activities can take place without prior notification to the 
Agency, that data collected using experimental tools should be considered as research data, and that studies 
conducted in production facilities be managed under the facility’s quality system (11). 
The FDA suggests that USP ⟨1223⟩, Ph. Eur. Chapter 5.1.6, or PDA TR 33, be used as primary resources for 
the selection, validation, and implementation of AMM/RMMs (11). Additionally, many firms have 
successfully used the FDA Comparability Protocol (CP) as a means to manage the validation plan. 
Submitting a FDA CP for pre-approval review is another avenue to gather FDA feedback on a post-approval 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
13 
change, though this pathway does not allow for discussion so it is useful when changing to a well-known 
ARMM/RMM method with a straightforward validation plan. Briefly, the CP is a regulatory submission 
(typically, a prior approval supplement) that contains a validation protocol for the AMM/RMM. The CP 
describes the proposed validation studies and the acceptance criteria to be met to demonstrate that the 
alternate method is acceptable. Once the CP has been approved, the applicant can use the protocol in the CP 
to validate the AMM/RMM for its intended use. The CP can be particularly useful for changes of a 
repetitive nature, such as the use of an AMM/RMM for multiple products or processes. Moreover, because 
the CP is reviewed by the FDA, the agency feedback can inform any required changes to the validation plan 
or approach prior to execution and therefore eliminating potential re-work. For more information on CPs, 
the guidance “Comparability Protocols for Post approval Changes to the Chemistry, Manufacturing, and 
Controls Information in an NDA, ANDA, or BLA (2022)” may be referenced (25). 
3.3.2 Europe 
Like their U.S. counterparts, European regulators have supported the validation and implementation of 
AMM/RMM technologies; however, there are subtle differences with respect to validation expectations and 
submission requirements. 
Commission Regulation (EC) 1234/2008 went into effect in 2010 and applies to variations to a Marketing 
Authorization granted in a Mutual Recognition/Decentralized Procedure and to Community or Centralized 
Authorizations. In 2023, (EC) 2023/1182 went into effect, and the impact of this along with the issuance of 
ICH Q12 introduces a number of features aimed at reducing the workload for both competent authorities 
and applicants. One of the most important changes relating to AMM/RMMs makes it now possible to group 
variations under the same Marketing Authorization such that they can all be assessed at the same time. 
Furthermore, it is possible to combine the same variations or group of variations from different Marketing 
Authorizations and have all of these assessed at the same time under what is called a “Work Sharing 
Process” or “Common Assessment.” This could be the case for a single AMM/RMM technology being used 
for multiple products (26).  
Next, there is an opportunity for scientific dialog with regulators through the European Medicines Agency 
(EMA) Scientific Advice and Protocol Assistance procedure. Here, a firm may ask for advice on its 
validation and implementation strategies. The Scientific Advice working party includes representatives from 
all European Union (EU) member states, and a written report is provided with the results of the advice 
process (27). For novel AMM/RMM technologies, EMA's Innovation Task Force (ITF) offers free, early 
informal dialogue to help identify the appropriate regulatory pathway and data requirements. For 
AMM/RMMs with broad applicability across multiple products, firms may also consider EMA's 
Qualification Advice procedure, which can even result in formal qualification of the methodology for 
industry-wide regulatory use. 
Based on EC 1234/2008, the Commission published Guidelines on the Details of the Various Categories of 
Variations…to the Terms of Marketing Authorizations for Medicinal Products for Human Use and 
Veterinary Medicinal Products that implements the “post-approval change management protocol 
(PACMP)” (28). This voluntary process, which is very similar to FDA’s CP, provides a strategy for 
managing the review of proposed validation plans prior to the start of testing (29). 
In this two-step process, a change management testing protocol is first submitted as a Type 2 Variation. The 
protocol should include the overall testing strategy, such as the planned studies, acceptance criteria, and 
methods. Prior to submitting the PACMP, a firm may also discuss their testing strategies with the EMA 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
14 
under the scientific advice procedure. Once the protocol is approved, the submitting company will perform 
the testing as specified in the protocol. 
The second step of the PACMP process involves submitting the resulting data, assuming it has met the 
protocol’s acceptance criteria. The decision to submit as a Type 1A or Type 1B variation is determined at 
the time of protocol review and approval. If the data is submitted under a Type 1A variation, the company 
can immediately implement the AMM/RMM; a Type 1B variation, on the other hand, requires a 30-day 
waiting period while the data is reviewed. These strategies are very similar to the FDA's Changes Being 
Effected-0 (CBE-0) and Changes Being Effected-30 (CBE-30) reduced reporting policies. 
Chapter 5.1.6 of the European Pharmacopeia (Ph. Eur.) addresses the validation of AMM/RMMs (5). Like 
TR 33, Ph. Eur. 5.1.6 provides a framework for the development of an appropriate validation plan, which 
can then be included in the PACMP as the basis for the studies that will be performed. Ph. Eur. 2.6.27 also 
provides good information as that chapter describes how AMM/RMMs can be used to demonstrate the 
quality of cell-based products (30). 
The EMA recently extended the competencies of the process analytical technology (PAT) team, which is 
currently responsible for quality-by-design matters, to also cover all matters related to AMM/RMMs. 
Additionally, the 2022 revision to the EU GMP Annex 1 recommends that the use of rapid microbial testing 
and monitoring systems should be considered to increase the protection of the product from potential 
extraneous sources of particulate and microbial contamination such as personnel, materials and the 
surrounding environment, and assist in the rapid detection of potential contaminants in the environment and 
product 
As with all post-approval changes, discussing this with the EMA, relevant competent authorities, and/or the 
local inspectorate early in the implementation planning phase is recommended. This is especially relevant if 
a formal Type variation change may not be required, which will depend on the AMM/RMM’s intended 
application, such as an in-process microbiology test that is not in a marketing authorization. 
3.3.3 Japan 
The Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA) evaluates AMM/RMMs that will be 
used for product release, such as rapid sterility testing, but is generally accepting of such methods provided 
that they give results that are comparable to or better than CMMs. In Japan, when AMM/RMMs intended 
for use in product release decisions (product disposition)—such as rapid sterility testing—are employed, the 
relevant test method may be used in lieu of compendial testing for batch release, within the scope approved 
through an application for marketing authorization (or an application for a partial change to the approved 
matters) submitted to the regulatory authority. 
However, if these methods are shown to give comparable or better results than CMMs, they are generally 
accepted by the PMDA. 
In the Japanese Pharmacopoeia (18th Edition), information on these topics is listed in the category G4 
Microorganism and GZ Others in the General Information category, including “Rapid Determination of 
Bacterial Count by Fluorescent Staining” <G4-8-152>, “Rapid Identification of Microorganisms by Genetic 
Analysis” <G4-7-160>, “Microbial Rapid Test Method” <G4-6-170>, “Alternative Methods for Endotoxin 
Testing and Measurement Reagent Using Recombinant Proteins” <G4-4-180>, and “Quality Control of 
Pharmaceutical Water” <GZ-2-172> (6). 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
15 
3.3.4 Rest of World 
The implementation of AMM/RMMs has been successful in non-U.S. and non-European regions, 
particularly in Japan, Australia, India, and China, but also in Mexico, Brazil, Central/South America and the 
Asia-Pacific region. As with U.S. and European agencies, it is recommended that an open dialogue with the 
affected regulators be initiated early in the implementation process. Because some of these agencies may not 
be familiar with the proposed technologies, having the vendor involved may also be recommended. Where 
some rest-of-the-world (ROW) countries may follow USP ⟨1223⟩ and/or Ph. Eur. Chapter 5.1.6, other 
countries may only follow their own local pharmacopeias. In either case, TR 33 can serve as a framework 
for discussion of the planned validation and implementation plans, and provides the following information 
regarding guidance given by authorities in these specific regions: 
• 
The Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration utilizes relevant sections of Ph. Eur. 5.1.6, USP 
⟨1223⟩, the British Pharmacopoeia, ISO 17025, and TR 33 when working with companies wishing 
to validate and implement AMM/RMM technologies (31, 32).  
• 
The Chinese Pharmacopoeia includes “Chapter 9201: Guidelines for the Validation of Alternative 
Microbial Detection Methods for Pharmaceuticals,” which, in general, allows AMM/RMMs to be 
used for final product testing where CMMs cannot meet QC requirements. Validation of 
AMM/RMMs is required, and the AMM/RMMs for final-product testing should give results that 
are comparable to or better than the CMM. Parallel testing can be performed to evaluate the 
comparability. Special considerations for the validation of AMM/RMMs are, for example, 
validation of each method parameter in the presence of the product, and validation of 
reproducibility in different labs, if possible. CMMs are used for post-market surveillance testing 
(33). 
• 
The Indian Pharmacopoeia general chapter, “Approach to Alternative Microbiological Methods,” 
which was finalized in October 2025, describes methods that can be used as alternatives to 
conventional qualitative, quantitative, or identification tests. This chapter shares many scientific 
principles with USP ⟨1223⟩, Ph. Eur. 5.1.6, and TR 33 (34).  ̶
 
In October 2023, the Indian Pharmacopoeia Commission officially joined the 
Pharmacopeial Discussion Group established in 1989 by the European Directorate for the 
Quality of Medicines and HealthCare, the United States Pharmacopeial Convention, and 
the Japanese Pharmacopoeia of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare to harmonize 
pharmacopeial standards (excipient monographs and selected general chapters) in three 
major regions of the world. Their goal is to enhance global pharmaceutical standards, 
regulatory compliance, and international recognition of Indian pharmaceutical products. 
3.3.5 Multi-Regional Regulatory Strategies for Alternative/Rapid Microbiological 
Methods 
Companies that want to utilize an AMM/RMM for a product that is marketed in multiple countries require 
approval from each country’s regulatory authority. It is possible, however, that one regulatory authority may 
not approve the AMM/RMM, even though another regulatory authority has approved it. In this case, the 
company may need to establish an alternative product testing strategy for the country in which the 
AMM/RMM cannot be used, which may include using the CMM for that particular product (i.e., “dual 
testing strategy”). However, such dual testing strategies may introduce operational and compliance burdens 
including, parallel data trending, specification alignment, increased resource utilization, and potential 
challenges in product disposition decision-making. These implications should be considered during 
implementation planning and regulatory strategy development. 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
16 
As stated in the USP “General Notice 6.30 Alternative and Harmonized Methods and Procedures,” if it 
appears there is a difference between the AMM/RMM and the CMM, or if there is a dispute as to whether a 
drug product complies with the monograph specifications, then the CMM is considered the referee test (35). 
3.4 Business and Quality Considerations for Implementing Alternative/ 
Rapid Microbiological Methods 
The industry can benefit from the application of modern process analytical tools including AMM/RMMs. 
The implementation of these technologies can provide a more in-depth understanding of their manufacturing 
processes in terms of microbial QC. As such, an opportunity exists to enhance process control, reduce 
variability, and increase manufacturing capacity and efficiencies.  
To aid in the evaluation of which particular AMM/RMMs are appropriate for specific applications, firms 
should consider the business and economic, quality and regulatory, and technical considerations of the 
proposed method(s).  
The business or cost requirements when implementing AMM/RMMs should be well understood. These 
considerations may have a significant impact on the decision to validate and implement new technologies 
for routine use. From a business impact perspective, a number of potential benefits may be achieved, 
including, but not limited to: 
• 
Faster finished-product release times to reduce backlogs and inventory 
• 
Reduction in risks associated with microbial control and current GMP decisions concerning 
forward- or continuous-processing of contaminated material that can have an impact on the 
acceptance and/or overall quality of the batch  
• 
Elimination or reduction of offline assays by replacement with at-line, on-line, or in-line assays  
• 
Increases in laboratory automation and reductions in manual testing, sample handling, and/or data 
management/data integrity, thereby reducing overhead and/or headcount for sampling and testing 
• 
Faster response to contamination events or microbial data deviations, and the initiation of 
investigations 
• 
Reduced repeat testing, lot rejection, reprocessing, and rework 
• 
Reduction in plant downtime and investigations 
• 
Reduced raw material, in-process and finished-goods inventory holdings 
Many of these business considerations, in terms of potential cost savings and/or cost avoidances, may be 
analyzed using an appropriate financial or economic model, and the resulting information may be used to 
support, from an economic standpoint, the implementation of a new technology. However, the financial 
results of conducting such an exercise should not solely be used to make a final decision on whether or not 
to implement the technology. Rather, they should be considered in addition to all of the other relevant 
factors, including the quality and technical benefits, when implementing the technology.  
There are a variety of financial models that can be used to assess whether an AMM/RMM will provide cost 
savings or cost avoidance when implemented. These include return-on-investment (ROI), Net Present Value 
and Payback Period, among others. For example, ROI is the ratio of money gained or lost on an investment 
relative to the amount of money invested. In this case, the investment is the implementation of an 
AMM/RMM. The Payback Period is the time required for the return on an investment to "repay" the sum of 
the original investment. A company’s financial organization can assist in determining the most appropriate 
model to use depending on the technology, its applications, and other financial factors. In all cases, the 
operating costs associated with the CMM and the AMM/RMMs are identified, as well as the potential cost 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
17 
savings/cost avoidances and the investment costs for validation and implementation of the AMM/RMM. 
These values are then used in the relevant financial model to calculate the potential financial benefit. In 
addition, soft savings, such as improvements in quality due to the use of the AMM/RMM, must be taken 
into consideration. 
Examples of operating costs may include, but are not limited to, the following: 
• 
Cost per test (e.g., consumables) 
• 
Labor time and labor costs 
• 
Equipment depreciation, calibration, qualification, and maintenance 
• 
Laboratory overhead 
• 
Data management, access, and storage 
• 
Software updates and/or ongoing licensing/subscription fees 
• 
Additional or dual testing (e.g., if the AMM/RMM is not approved in all countries) 
Examples of investment costs may include, but are not limited to, the following: 
• 
Capital costs for the new technology 
• 
Installation costs, including laboratory modifications if necessary 
• 
Costs for integration with electronic data management systems (e.g., laboratory information 
management system (LIMS)) 
• 
Training 
• 
Validation 
• 
Method transfer activities 
• 
Regulatory filings and associated costs, where applicable 
Finally, examples of potential cost savings/cost avoidances may include, but are not limited to the 
following:  
• 
Better monitoring and control of the overall microbial quality of a manufacturing process and its 
associated product, thereby reducing risk to the patient 
• 
Early identification of contamination in multistage processing, allowing process intervention to 
prevent manufacturing loss 
• 
Greater understanding of manufacturing variability, enhancement of process knowledge, and 
contribution to continuous process and product improvement 
• 
More accurate, sensitive, and reproducible monitoring, as well as enhanced trending of 
microbiological data 
• 
Fewer transcription errors and improved documentation and traceability as a result of increased 
automation and data integrity 
Additional information on how to develop a financial assessment may be found in the public literature (36).  
3.5 Risk Analysis 
The concepts of QRM and Analytical Quality by Design (AQbD) are useful to the discussion of evaluation, 
validation, and implementation of AMM/RMMs. The ICH defines risk for pharmaceuticals for human use 
as “the combination of the probability of occurrence of harm and the severity of that harm” (37). With an 
analytical method, risk is associated with categories like sample collection, sample preparation, test 
reagents, instrumentation, test environment, and personnel factors (38). These variables can be ranked 
according to the severity of the consequences on the analytical results, the probability of failure occurrence, 
and the difficulty of failure detection. Based on these rankings, risks are mitigated. 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
18 
Two primary principles of QRM stated in ICH Q9(R1) are that the:  
• 
Evaluation of the risk to quality should be based on scientific knowledge and ultimately linked to 
the protection of the patient 
• 
Level of effort, formality, and documentation of the QRM process should be commensurate with 
the level of risk  
An industry white paper thoroughly detailed how various AQbD tools contribute to developing robust 
analytical methods, whose validation status are continuously confirmed during a product lifecycle (39). 
As quality by design (QbD) in pharmaceutical product development is more familiar than its application in 
assay development (i.e., AQbD), a useful comparison of the two processes is provided in Table 3.5-1. 
Table 3.5-1 Comparison of the Steps Taken in the Quality by Design and Analytical Quality by 
Design Processes (40) 
Quality by Design (QbD) 
Analytical Quality by Design (AQbD) 
Define quality target product profile 
Define analytical target product profile 
Establish critical quality product attributes 
Establish critical quality method attributes 
Conduct a risk assessment 
Conduct a risk assessment 
Establish the process space design 
Establish the method operable design region 
Develop a process control strategy 
Develop a method control strategy 
Implement lifecycle management 
Implement lifecycle management 
A QbD has been successfully applied to chemical assays and its principles can be adapted to 
microbiological methods through the AQbD framework (41). The six AQbD process steps in Table 3.5-1 
are discussed more fully with examples relevant to modern microbiological methods here: 
The steps are defined as:  
1. Definition of the Analytical Target Profile with AMM/RMMs 
Analytical target profile is a concept developed in analytical chemistry but is also applicable to 
microbiological methods. Microbiological methods are broadly classified as methods for microbial 
detection (e.g., sterility testing), microbial enumeration (e.g., microbial plate counts), limit tests (e.g., 
tests for specified or objectionable microorganisms), and microbial characterization and identification. 
The analytical targets of the conventional growth-based microbiological methods are viable 
microorganisms with the capability of growing in microbiological culture media, forming colonies on a 
plate or turbidity in a broth, that are detected and/or enumerated by visual inspection. With 
AMM/RMMs the analytical targets vary widely with the technology, the results are captured 
electronically, and they are often not comparable to the CMM based on the colony-forming unit (CFU) 
or turbidity. For example, the analytical target for bacteria and fungi in a bioluminescence method 
would be adenosine triphosphate (ATP) present in viable cells. The ATP content of microorganisms 
varies by the type, species, and growth-phase of the organism. Other targets include rRNA base 
sequences, respired CO2, autofluorescence, vital stained nucleic acid, immunological reactions, 
enzymatic activity, and biomarkers.  
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
19 
2. Establish Critical Quality Method Attributes  
Critical quality attributes (CQAs) are typically viewed as physical, chemical, or biological attributes that 
define the quality of a drug product. A major transition from microbiological attributes based on growth 
to the physicochemical attributes is occurring. CQAs for analytical methods, which can be called critical 
quality method attributes, address both method attributes and method parameters rather than product 
attributes. For example, a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification sterility test method based on 
a nucleic acid base sequence, like 16S rRNA, depends on multiple operating parameters including 
nucleic acid extraction and capture, primer and probe reagents, target sequence, thermocycler 
performance, signal capture, and data reporting. Accordingly, these critical quality method attributes 
should be considered when validating this type of AMM/RMM.  
3. Risk Management 
A risk assessment is defined in the ICH Q9(R1) guideline as the identification of hazards and the 
analysis and evaluation of risks associated with exposure to those hazards. A risk assessment is an 
analytical component of the overall risk management process. Risk management is defined in the ICH 
Q9(R1) guideline as a systematic process for the assessment, control, communication, and review of 
risk to quality across the product lifecycle. Examples of risks that may be relevant to an AMM/RMM 
include false negative, false positive, and non-equivalent results. The greatest risk to a patient is a false 
negative result (i.e., a negative result when microorganisms are present in the test sample), which the 
industry must work to avoid. A false positive (i.e., a positive result when no viable microorganisms are 
present in the test sample), is a business risk; a good product could be rejected, which could affect the 
supply to the patient. In addition, the frequent lack of equivalency of a modern AMM/RMM to the 
CMM due to different signals makes the statistical comparison of the comparability difficult and 
complicates and delays the method validation and acceptance of AMM/RMM by the competent 
authorities. 
4. Method Operable Design Region 
Method operable design region is used to select the operational region for a routine analytical method, 
so critical method parameters and analyte sensitivity must be considered. For example, with a 
mycoplasma PCR screening method, the specificity of the targeted base sequence (method parameter) 
and a limit of detection (LoD) of 10 CFU/mL (analyte sensitivity) comparable to the growth-based 
CMM should be viewed as critical (42). 
5. Method Control Strategy 
The inclusion of negative and positive controls in an assay run is common with AMM/RMMs. They 
type of controls used will be specific to the technology or scientific principle of the method. Controls 
are useful in monitoring the performance of the assay. 
6. Lifecycle Management 
The current regulatory expectation is to assess the performance of an analytical method, make an 
improvement to the assay (if required), use change control to evaluate method changes and, if 
necessary, revalidate the method throughout the lifecycle from product introduction to product 
cancellation (43).  
Generally, when a change is proposed, the potential risks associated with these changes should be identified; 
this is also the case when implementing an AMM/RMM. Therefore, a risk assessment should be performed 
prior to the start of any validation and implementation activities.  
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
20 
Identified risks may vary and may include: 
• 
Inability to demonstrate equivalence in results between CMMs and AMM/RMMs 
• 
Global regulatory acceptance 
• 
Product sample requirements for evaluation 
• 
Alternative signal to the conventional microbial growth-based result  
• 
Potential for false-positive or false-negative results 
• 
Computer system capabilities and securities 
• 
Supplier issues 
Risks may vary depending on the technology and the methodology it replaces, the nature of the 
measurements taken (qualitative, quantitative, or identification), the unit of measure (e.g., as compared with 
conventional microbiology measurements, such as the CFU or turbidity as an indicator for growth), and the 
particular product or process attribute being evaluated.  
The risk assessment may be carried out by comparing the differences between each process step of the 
conventional method. See Gordon’s Validation of Milliflex® Quantum for Bioburden Testing of 
Pharmaceutical Product, which provides additional guidance (44).  
Risk analysis model tools, such as the Failure Modes and Effects Analysis (FMEA) or Hazard Analysis and 
Critical Control Points (HACCP), may be used to effectively decide which AMM/RMM to implement, to 
assist in the justification of technology implementation, or to better understand the impact of 
implementation on the product and the business. Additional information on these two methods of risk 
analysis as well as other risk analysis methods is available in PDA Technical Report No. 44: Quality Risk 
Management for Aseptic Processes and in World Health Organization Annex 7: Application of Hazard 
Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) Methodology to Pharmaceuticals (45, 46). 
3.6 Automation of Conventional Methods 
Manual laboratory procedures can be automated, for example, Gram-staining, colony-counting, determining 
the inhibition zone, performing an antibiotics assay, or general sample preparation, such as dissolution or 
dilution of samples. Such automated and integrated systems offer many advantages to laboratories with very 
high sample throughput and recurring workflows (e.g., reduced sample-handling and variability from 
manual-handling). Whether they are worthwhile in individual cases can only be assessed on the basis of 
detailed cost-benefit evaluation (see Section 3.4).  
Following this strategy, it is important to determine how the introduction of automation impacts the 
equipment qualification and method validation requirements (35). For example, there are a variety of 
methods available to detect the presence of viable cells. These methods may have applications in different 
tests (e.g., bioburden testing, sterility tests) but may not, in fact, replace critical aspects of the test entirely. 
When using imaging systems to detect and count the colonies, which in the narrower sense do not differ 
from the conventional pharmacopeial procedures (e.g., using membrane-filtration method, similar media, 
incubation temperature/conditions and time), it is probably sufficient to assess the accuracy and precision of 
the colony-counting system as part of the equipment qualification. It is advisable to carry out a risk 
assessment and to assess the possible effects on the validity of the determined colony number. It is probably 
not necessary to revalidate the automated colony-counting method in full, but a comparison of the accuracy 
and precision of the colony number determined by the automated colony-counter and the colony number 
determined by laboratory staff is advisable. The article “Systematic Approach for the Evaluation, 
Validation, and Implementation of Automated Colony Counting Systems” in the PDA Journal of 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
21 
Pharmaceutical Science and Technology describes an equipment qualification for an automated colony-
counting system that detects microcolonies based on their intrinsic autofluorescence and while allowing the 
incubation time to be reduced by 50% (47). 
Figure 3.6-1 is a flow chart for an automated colony-counting system to decide whether a performance 
qualification (PQ) is sufficient (automation of an CMM) or if additional aspects should be assessed as part 
of a method validation (if changes to the CMM are introduced) (48). 
Figure 3.6-1 Flow Chart for Equipment Qualification of Automated Colony-Counters and 
Method Validation 
The result of the decision process (see Figure 3.6-1) was that an extended equipment qualification should be 
performed if a shortened incubation time compared to the CMM is to be used. 
In contrast, a colony-counter using the CMM with an incubation time described in guidance documents 
would merely compare the machine versus the visual count of the colonies. There is no need to establish the 
incubation time. 
3.6.1 Performance Qualification 
During the extended PQ, the accuracy and precision of the colony-counting device should be compared to 
the visual count on the same plate, rather than an assessment of the entire microbial analytical performance 
(47, 49). If the expected use of an automated colony-counting device is used to reduce the TTR, it is 
important to collect data before (e.g., development studies) or during the PQ to help determine the TTR. 
3.6.2 Time to Result 
The example for determining a TTR is based on risk assessments and on internal test methods for testing, 
for example, product or water samples (47). Testing of product samples was carried out according to 
pharmacopeial requirements with an incubation time of 3-5 days on tryptic soy agar. On the other hand, 
water samples based on the company's in-house flora, which includes slow-growing microorganisms, were 
incubated on Reasoner's 2A (R2A) agar with a prolonged incubation time of 7-8 days. These internal test 
methods were used as the basis for the experiments to define the sample-specific TTR. 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
22 
The TTR may be defined as the time it takes for the automated colony-counting system to accurately count 
the slowest-growing organism on the solid media reaching a predefined recovery of the visual count of the 
same agar plate for the maximum incubation time described for the conventional readout (i.e., 5 days for 
testing of product samples, or 7-8 days for testing of water samples) (47, 49). The TTR may also be 
determined by statistically comparing microbial counts of relevant sampling sites (e.g., point-of-use water) 
between the automated colony counter and the CMM. In this case, the TTR in the automated colony-counter 
should demonstrate a statistical noninferior result as compared to the CMM. Applying the TTR, an 
assessment is needed as to whether the automated colony-counting system is “comparable” (Ph. Eur.) or 
“non-inferior” (USP) to the conventional visual colony-counting method with respect to the validation 
parameters, accuracy, and precision (see Section 3.6.1). 
3.6.3 Method Suitability Test 
Before routine testing can occur, method suitability must be demonstrated (30, 50). Method suitability 
demonstrates the recovery of microorganisms in the presence of the product to be tested. 
Other modifications (e.g., different media types, different incubation temperatures) may require a method 
validation. The extent of this method validation should be defined based on a risk assessment (see Section 
3.5). 
3.7 Method Variability in Microbiology and Alternative/Rapid 
Microbiological Methods  
Microbiological methods are subject to varying degrees of detection, and this is predominantly observed 
with methods that rely on the growth of microorganisms. Variability can be associated with media selection, 
incubation time, incubation temperature, incubation conditions (e.g., humidity, oxygen tension), 
intrusiveness of the sampling method, presence or absence of antimicrobial substances, or the actual method 
being used. Furthermore, microbial growth will be impacted by the physiological state of organisms 
intended to be detected, especially if the organisms are stressed, injured, dormant, or are VBNC.  
3.7.1 Considerations for Detection and Enumeration Approaches 
Method variability in CMM analysis is well documented and should be considered in assuring the microbial 
quality of a product (51). AMM/RMM approaches should be reviewed prior to validation as additional 
factors can influence the accuracy and sensitivity of microbial analysis, from sample preparation to 
detection, beyond those considered for CMMs. Reliable detection of microbial contamination at specified 
levels is essential, including the presence or absence of microbes and single-cell detection for sterility, or the 
definition of alert and action levels when used for process monitoring and control. An understanding of test 
material characteristics (e.g., solubility, viscosity) is a prerequisite to reliable analysis of the material and 
any required sample preparation steps to optimize the recovery and analysis of any microbes or associated 
chemical signals (e.g., endotoxins). Often, the recovery and suitability of AMM/RMMs can be addressed in 
the suitability of these materials in the pre-validation work with the supplier.  
Key factors impacting the sensitivity and accuracy of AMM/RMMs include instrumentation limitations 
(e.g., offline verification of an in-line measurement), variability in sample preparation methods (e.g., 
dilution and filtration), the nature of the analyte (e.g., viscosity, solubility, microbial distribution, competing 
fluorescent chemistries, abiotic, and nonmicrobial biotic particles), the chosen test methodology (culture-
based, molecular, chemical, immunologic), microbial viability, presence of VBNCs. 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
23 
Using appropriate calibration standards, such as microbial count standards and surrogate chemical or 
particulate references as required by the measurement technology, for at-line and offline equipment is 
recommended to ensure consistency. Additionally, the inherent diversity of microorganisms within samples 
also adds to the variability. As the measurement field develops, there will be further challenges in ensuring 
the reliable operation of in-line technologies, for both the ongoing operation and the qualification and 
confirmation of detection within the process. 
Sampling considerations for the incoming raw materials and in process samples are critical in ensuring 
quality production as is the sample plan applied to finished production, as the distribution of 
microorganisms can vary in unconventional materials, affecting detection accuracy. Statistical models like 
Poisson distribution are often employed to interpret microbial counts on the assumption that the microbes 
are uniformly dispersed within the test material. Alternative approaches for statistical models and 
considerations for the microbial distribution in food-based materials have also been proposed (52, 53). 
Consistent preparation of bacterial inoculums is challenging, especially at low counts, and errors can arise 
during various stages of testing. While AMM/RMMs offer greater sensitivity than CMMs, they require 
meticulous sample preparation to accommodate the sample matrix and contamination distribution during 
validation and suitability testing.  
Where the measured microbial indicator is dependent on microbial metabolic activity (e.g., ATP, metabolic 
conversion of fluorescent indicators), additional activation or incubation procedures may be required so 
stressed cells may recover or divide sufficiently for detection.  
Unique validation strategies may be needed for AMM/RMMs, particularly with non-liquid samples and in 
line detection technologies. Additional vendor support or in-process confirmation of microbial detection is 
often crucial for end users in validating these technologies. A comprehensive understanding of method 
variability, along with careful planning in sampling, preparation, and validation, is essential for ensuring 
accurate detection and assessment of microbial contamination in various products. 
3.7.2 Considerations for Identification Approaches 
Various AMM/RMM identification methods are available for characterizing microorganisms in 
pharmaceutical products and raw materials. These serve as effective screening technologies to determine the 
absence of specified microorganisms, thereby necessitating validation according to established guidelines. 
Microbial characterization is crucial as it identifies potential impacts on products and production processes 
that may not be covered in compendial monographs.  
These approaches are similar to conventional phenotypic and biochemical approaches in that the 
identification is calibrated to cultures of known identity. Qualification involves distinguishing between 
microbial classification, which groups organisms based on similarities, and identification, which specifies 
their genus or species. Identification methods include phenotypic approaches, such as colony morphology, 
Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionization Time-of-Flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS), and 
genotypic techniques like 16S rRNA sequencing. While considered the most-used reference methods, both 
may struggle to differentiate closely related species (e.g., Bacillus spp. or Burkholderia spp.), so require 
additional methods for accurate identification (e.g., multilocus sequencing technology). With the further 
development of next-generation sequencing, allowing whole-genome sequencing, and the use of spectral 
profiling (e.g., FT-IR, Raman) approaches, similar comparative qualification to reference cultures can be 
conducted. 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
24 
New identification methods should be verified, focusing on accuracy and reproducibility (repeatability), 
either against CMMs through parallel testing (e.g., USP ⟨1113⟩ Microbial characterization, identification, 
and strain typing (54)), using known standard QC cultures, or agreement with reference laboratory results, 
with a goal of achieving over 90% accuracy and repeatability, defined as follows (55): 
• 
Accuracy % = (Number of correct results/Total number of results) · 100  
• 
Reproducibility (Repeatability) % = (Number of correct results in agreement/Total number of 
results) · 100  
The Ph. Eur. 5.1.6 booklet provides an example of a validation approach for the 16S rDNA sequencing. The 
verification tests should include the assessment of (56):  
• 
Accuracy (Acceptance criterion: Microorganisms are identified correctly to species level and 
above the pre-defined reporting level for sequence homology) 
• 
Specificity (Acceptance criterion: the results of the specificity test using mixed cultures (quantified 
and titred based on CFU or using an analytical method to standardise the DNA titre) lead to valid 
identifications. These results must clearly demonstrate that the analysis of mixed cultures does not 
result in false identifications) 
• 
Robustness (Acceptance criterion: Microorganisms are identified correctly to species level, with a 
pre-defined percentage match between the database and the test strains) 
Where referential databases are used for identification, the profiles of all organisms may not be present due 
to the maturity of the identification technology, its use across industry, and its associated database. For 
known and culturable microorganisms, the databases can be updated for accuracy and completeness, ideally 
with multiple users verifying the accuracy of the input data as misidentifications can pose significant risks.  
Those techniques that offer the detection of VBNC (e.g., microscopy and Raman, Cytometry) and are 
unable to refer to a cultured sample are limited to detection and enumeration, as the recovery of sufficient 
genetic material can limit the use of genotypic approaches for the confirmation of microbial identity. 
For both culture and VBNC-sourced material, the purity of any observed or recovered organisms can be a 
problem as the sample may be composed of a mixture of microbes, and the method may bias the 
identification to the organism (e.g., efficiency of DNA extraction) (5).  
Successful qualification hinges on a thorough comprehension of the system's capabilities, its limitations, and 
the implications of the results, enabling end users to make informed decisions when interpreting 
identification outcomes and managing any risk assessment for material dispensation. 
For certain AMM/RMMs, the testing process may be destructive or may not permit recovery of a viable 
isolate for subsequent microbial identification. In such cases, firms may evaluate alternative strategies for 
the identification of contaminants, such as duplicate or parallel sampling. 
3.8 Method Choice 
Advances in specific measurement technologies are enabling the use of AMM/RMMs for targeted release 
and monitoring. These include technologies such as viability-based fluorescent staining and flow cytometry, 
which have enabled microbial detection at the single-cell level while certain hybrid platforms further 
integrate these with techniques like microscopy or spectral analysis to characterize individual targeted cells. 
Other AMM/RMMs also offer distinct advantages. For example, ATP bioluminescence provides nearly 
instantaneous results for general hygiene or biomass monitoring and estimations, while nucleic acid 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
25 
amplification techniques (NAT)/PCR deliver high taxonomic specificity and the ability to detect non-
culturable microorganisms (57). In many cases, quantification and viability can be obtained in hours, with 
TTR dependent on the technology, its use, and sample preparation (often culture/enrichment). There are 
several in-line approaches, but a majority of these techniques apply to the at-line or off-line analysis of 
samples. Whether the full use of the method’s capability is used for measurement purposes is at the 
discretion of the user, with the expectation that the scientific justification and validation of the selected 
measurement parameter is carried out. For example, the use of quantitative methods capable of enumerating 
viable particles in a sample for nonsterile applications can equally be applied to its use as a qualitative 
measure for the presence or absence of viable cells in sterile manufacture.  
The development and use of AMM/RMMs for in-line or on-line measurement, to either monitor the sterility 
or the maintenance of sterile/hygienic manufacturing conditions, is currently limited to the quantification of 
biofluorescent particles which may consist of one or more cells, usually against an inert/transparent 
background chemistry (i.e., air or water). Additional processing and suitability considerations are often 
required for these technologies to be applied to more chemically complex matrices. 
For AMM/RMMs, the TTR is defined by the time of detection for the most challenging organisms within 
the system (see Section 3.6.2). Unlike CMMs where TTR is traditionally based on fixed incubation periods 
for recovery (e.g., five days for products or seven to eight days for water), TTR for AMM/RMMs is 
determined by validation experiments. This involves demonstrating that the AMM/RMM provides a 
comparable or non-inferior level of detection within a shorter timeframe. 
3.8.1 Categorizing Technologies 
For the methods described in Sections 4.2 and 4.3, the aim is to detect or quantify the presence of even a 
single viable organism present in the process or test sample, with the potential to identify this organism 
where required (see Section 4.4). As a single technique may employ a combination of technologies (e.g., 
microscopy, activation, metabolized dyes) or targeted analytical techniques (e.g., FT-IR), each technology 
description has been categorized under the types of data output achieved: qualitative (presence/absence), 
quantitative (accurate enumeration), and identification, as defined in Ph. Eur. 5.1.6. This categorization does 
not imply that these methods cannot be used interchangeably across categories; for example, a method 
capable of single-cell discrimination and quantification can also serve for use as a presence/absence test, 
such as solid-phase cytometry. 
Qualitative technologies will detect the presence of microorganisms (e.g., sterility test), the presence of a 
specific type of microorganism (e.g., specified organisms, E. coli or Mycoplasma), or related biomolecule 
(e.g., pyrogens), which can be semiquantitative by reference to relevant calibration curves (e.g., the 
monocyte activation test (MAT) for pyrogen detection (58). 
Quantitative technologies enumerate the number of microorganisms present in a test sample. The 
pharmacopeial microbial enumeration test is an example of a conventional growth-based method. In 
contrast, certain AMM/RMM technologies, such as solid-phase cytometry, provide enumeration to the 
single-cell level using cell- or viability-based staining approaches. 
Identification technologies can identify microbes to the genus, species, subspecies, or strain levels generally 
requiring culture, with some systems capable of identification at the single-cell level (e.g., Confocal Raman 
spectroscopy). Some of these methods are fully automated strategies of conventional growth-based 
biochemical and carbohydrate methods, while others rely on novel scientific principles similar to chemical 
or analytical methods. 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.
