Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
1 
1.0 Introduction 
Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026): Evaluation, Validation, and Implementation of Alternative and 
Rapid Microbiological Methods (TR 33) is intended to provide guidance for the successful evaluation, 
validation, and implementation of alternative/rapid microbiological methods (AMM/RMMs) used in the 
pharmaceutical, biotechnology, advanced therapy medicinal products (ATMPs), medical devices, and 
related industries. The use of these methods is aligned with the expectations for improving product and 
process quality, contamination control, and the rapid release of medically necessary drugs and devices. 
Applications may include, but are not limited to, sterility testing, microbiological examination of nonsterile 
products (enumeration and test for specified microorganisms), antimicrobial effectiveness testing, 
microbiological monitoring of cleanrooms and other controlled environments, analysis of pharmaceutical 
grade water, microbial characterization and identification, and microbiological in-process control testing.  
The intended audience of TR 33 includes microbiologists and related individuals who are responsible for the 
validation and utilization of microbiological test methods in the microbiology testing laboratory, 
manufacturing environment, or other relevant testing settings. This technical report may also be of interest 
to suppliers of testing equipment, microbiology managers and supervisors, validation specialists, quality 
control (QC), compounders, and quality assurance personnel responsible for approving product release and 
validation protocols, manufacturing personnel, individuals who work on global compendial initiatives, and 
regulatory agencies. Additionally, Section 9.0 (Appendix 1) through Section 11.0 (Appendix 3) provides 
useful information to support statistical analysis of data from AMM/RMM validation and comparability 
studies. 
1.1 Purpose & Scope 
Microbiological testing plays an ever-increasing role in pharmaceutical and related industry laboratories. In 
response to this, a variety of alternative and rapid methodologies have emerged in recent years that automate 
conventional microbiological methods (CMM), make use of surrogate markers, or are based on wholly new 
technologies. These AMM/RMMs can offer significant improvements in terms of speed, accuracy, 
precision, and/or specificity, as compared with conventional microbiology test methodologies.  
Most of the microbial testing performed today continues to rely on centuries-old CMMs that are based on 
the recovery and growth of microorganisms using solid or liquid microbiological growth media. This is true, 
in part, because these methods can be appropriate for their intended use and have a long history of 
application in both industrial and clinical settings. However, they are often limited by slow microbial growth 
rates, the unintended selectivity of microbiological cultures, and the inherent variability of microorganisms 
in their response to growth-based methods. Despite the limitations of CMMs, alternative, more rapid, and 
potentially superior microbiological methods have not been universally adopted within the pharmaceutical, 
biotechnology, ATMP, medical device, and related industries. This seemingly continues to be due in part to 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
2 
a lack of understanding regarding the steps needed to demonstrate their equivalence or comparability to 
CMMs that would be acceptable to a firm’s internal quality expectations as well as regulatory agency 
reviewers and inspectors. The original PDA TR 33 was published in 2002, and its first revision was released 
in 2013. Based on the industry, compendial, and regulatory developments since the 2013 revision, including 
the need for the rapid release of personalized medicines, such as ATMPs, sterile-compounded 
pharmaceutical preparations, radiopharmaceuticals, and the rapid release of therapeutic drug products 
needed in public health emergencies, the task force members believe that this revision of TR 33 is timely 
and will provide additional guidance to assist with the evaluation, validation and implementation of 
AMM/RMMs. While this document focuses on the manufacture of drug products, the validation approaches 
and principles defined herein can be translated to other product categories (e.g., consumer goods) where 
these AMM/RMMs may be applied. 
Considerable guidance can be found regarding the validation of chemical methods, for example, U.S. 
Pharmacopeia (USP) General Chapter ⟨1225⟩ Validation of Compendial Methods, International Conference 
on Harmonisation (ICH) Quality Guideline Q2(R2): Validation of Analytical Methods, and U.S. Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA) Guidance for Industry: Analytical Procedures and Methods Validation for 
Drugs and Biologics (1-3). These publications provide very specific instruction regarding the demonstration 
of alternative analytical chemistry methods and their equivalence to conventional chemical methods. 
Chapters introduced by the global compendia, including USP General Chapter ⟨1223⟩ Validation of 
Alternative Microbiological Methods, European Pharmacopoeia (Eur. Ph.) Chapter 5.1.6 Alternative 
Methods for Control of Microbiological Quality, and Japanese Pharmacopoeia (JP) General Information 
G4-6-170: Rapid Microbial Methods, provide guidance on the steps needed to validate an AMM/RMM (4-
6). Due to the differences in recommended validation strategies within each guidance document and the 
potential variability in validation expectations across regulatory agencies, additional guidance that provides 
an understandable and holistic approach to the qualification and implementation of AMM/RMMs is 
desirable.  
This technical report was developed as a collaborative effort among microbiologists and expert consultants 
who have practical experience validating and implementing AMM/RMMs within the pharmaceutical, 
biopharmaceutical, and medical device industries, AMM/RMM suppliers, and regulatory agency 
representatives. By providing updated and agreed-upon performance standards and industry best practices, 
the task force believes the validation and implementation of AMM/RMMs will be greatly accelerated. 
 
 
 
 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.
