Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
37 
5.0 The Validation Process 
There are multiple definitions of validation within the pharmaceutical industry. For example, ICH Q2(R2) 
states that “The objective of validation of an analytical procedure is to demonstrate that it is suitable for its 
intended purpose” (2). In modern regulatory practice, validation is understood as a lifecycle activity that 
extends beyond an initial validation study and includes continued assurance of method performance during 
routine use. 
The validation of AMM/RMM should therefore be conducted within this lifecycle framework. In addition to 
demonstrating suitability for intended purpose, validation activities should ensure that the method, 
equipment and instruments, associated software, supporting systems, and test procedures or process 
workflows remain capable of consistently delivering reliable results throughout their operational life. 
Accordingly, this technical report provides guidance on a holistic approach to the validation and 
implementation of AMM/RMMs and their associated systems.  
Many different approaches have been used successfully for the validation of AMM/RMM, many of which 
have been accepted by regulatory authorities. While examples of specific validation strategies are provided 
here in Section 5.0, it may be necessary to modify or customize these strategies to address a specific 
technology, method, or application. 
For the purposes of validation, AMM/RMM may be classified as qualitative (e.g., presence/absence assays) 
or quantitative (e.g., enumeration assays), and the applicable validation criteria will differ accordingly. 
However, minor differences exist among current guidance documents, USP ⟨1223⟩, and Ph. Eur. 5.1.6 
including terminologies, procedures employed during the validation process, data interpretation, acceptance 
criteria, and the use of statistics (56). Therefore, the purpose of this current version of TR 33 is to help 
potential users of AMM/RMMs to appropriately select and understand the performance parameters 
requiring validation for any new method. The goal is for one strategy to be acceptable in all geographic 
regions, by all regulatory authorities and, most importantly, to be scientifically defendable and justified.  
It is also strongly recommended that the appropriate regulatory agencies be contacted and involved early in 
the decision-making process for both the validation activities and the implementation of an AMM/RMM 
that will be used during the manufacture of pharmaceutical products. 
Table 5.0-1 outlines the main validation activities and qualification deliverables and the portion of Section 
5.0 where each is discussed.
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
38 
Table 5.0-1 Validation and Qualification Deliverables and Responsibilities 
Validation/Qualification Deliverables 
Responsibility 
TR 33 
Section 
Supplier 
End User 
Proof of Concept (POC) Studies 
Execute upon 
request of end user 
Review and assess supplier’s primary 
validation study 
or 
Execute 
5.1.2 
User Requirement Specifications (URS) 
Support end user 
Execute 
5.1.3 
Supplier Audit, Business Case, and Risk 
Assessment 
Support end user 
Execute 
5.1.4 – 5.1.6 
& 3.5 
Design Qualification (DQ) 
Execute 
and 
Support end user 
Review and assess supplier URS/DQ 
or 
Execute, in case it does not exist for the 
intended use 
5.1.7 
Validation Master Plan and Associated 
Documentation 
N/A 
Execute 
5.1.8 
5.2.1 – 5.2.2 
Equipment IQ/OQ/PQ, including System 
Integration and Computer System Validation 
(CSV) 
Execute IQ/OQ/PQ 
and 
Support system 
integration and CSV 
Review and assess IQ/OQ/PQ protocols, data 
and reports1 
and 
Execute system integration and CSV 
5.2.3 – 5.2.6 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
39 
Validation/Qualification Deliverables 
Responsibility 
TR 33 
Section 
Supplier 
End User 
Primary Validation 
Execute 
Review and assess supplier primary validation 
or 
Execute, in case the method is other than the 
one validated by the supplier or if no primary 
validation exists 
5.3 – 5.4 
Evaluation of Validation Parameters in the 
Absence of Product or a Test Sample 
N/A 
Execute 
5.3.1 
Method Suitability Testing  
N/A 
Execute 
5.3.2 
Comparability Testing in the Presence of 
Product or a Test Sample 
N/A 
Execute 
5.3.3 
Ongoing Maintenance and Periodic Reviews 
Execute 
maintenance 
Introduce change control process and 
maintenance program 
5.4.14 
1Based on the assessment, the end user may decide to perform additional studies 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
40 
5.1 Pre-Validation Activities 
A variety of activities may be successfully completed prior to initiating validation of the system, as some of 
these tasks are critical to the subsequent validation activities required. Completion of these tasks can aid in 
completing a successful validation and, hopefully, reduce the number of deviations and amount of retesting 
that may become necessary during the validation activities. 
Suppliers are responsible for providing end users a clear description of their technology, the scientific 
principle for microbial detection, the intended applications for its use, the materials and equipment needed 
for the test method, and expected data output or signal when detecting, counting, or identifying. 
microorganisms. If an end user requires information on test-sample suitability prior to the start of validation 
or the selection of an AMM/RMM, the end user can work with suppliers to perform feasibility or POC 
studies to generate this information. 
5.1.1 Proof of Concept 
The AMM/RMM selected for use should initially be evaluated to ensure confirmation of POC, feasibility, or 
principle (i.e., assessing whether the method and accompanying system is compatible with the intended 
product or sample matrix). This POC phase is most appropriate if the method supplier has no supporting 
data on similar products, sample matrices, or types of microorganisms that the end user will routinely test; 
therefore, POC testing, if required, should be conducted prior to making the final decision to purchase the 
equipment or instrumentation. POC would also allow for mitigation of potential issues with the instruments 
and method customization for the intended use. This activity can be conducted by the end user or the 
supplier of the system or method. For example, the products or other sample matrices for evaluation during 
POC testing and, when appropriate, the number and types of microorganisms chosen to challenge the new 
method should be carefully selected in order to ensure that the method is compatible with the product matrix 
of the sample(s) to be tested, and the resulting data provides a compelling indication that the validation of 
the intended method and accompanying system will have a high probability of success.  
5.1.2 User Requirements Specifications 
The URS is a key document that explicitly describes the characteristics of the method that will be required 
for routine use. As such, the content of the URS may well determine the success or failure of the method 
selection process. The specification is typically prepared by the end user; however, it is important to seek 
input from other internal stakeholders, such as Regulatory Affairs, Quality, Information Technology, and 
other relevant validation groups, as well as potential suppliers of the method. Many AMM/RMM suppliers 
possess their own system specifications, often referred to as an External Specification or Supplier URS. 
Careful review and comparison of the supplier’s URS and the end user’s URS may help identify criteria not 
included in one or the other that may be critical performance characteristics to be considered during the 
system selection process. This may include not only the microbiological aspects of the method and 
accompanying system, but also throughput, automation, environmental requirements, supplier expectations 
and communications, and computer system capabilities (e.g., LIMS interface, data management). In cases 
where the end user requires a very specific workflow (e.g., based on sample matrices and/or applications), 
the URS may serve as a starting point for additional performance characteristics that the end user and the 
supplier may need to consider and/or develop.  
The URS will also be the starting point for establishing the validation criteria that will be tested by the end 
user. Therefore, the URS should describe the functions the method and accompanying system must be 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
41 
capable of meeting that will be very specific to the end user’s needs and the materials to be assessed. 
Essentially, the requirements specified in the URS will directly influence the entire strategy for validation 
and acceptance criteria. 
5.1.3 Assessment of Supplier Capabilities/Supplier Audit 
The ability of a potential supplier to meet the specified requirements (e.g., as outlined in the User 
Requirements Specification (URS) is very important (see Section 5.1.3). Within the framework of the URS, 
suppliers for AMM/RMM technologies should be scrutinized for their ability to provide high-quality 
instrumentation, reagents and consumables, software, and technical support. Suppliers should have an 
appropriate quality system in place for designing, manufacturing, testing, and releasing equipment, software, 
reagents, and consumables throughout the technology lifecycle. Additionally, suppliers may provide 
technical documentation, training, validation support, troubleshooting, calibration services, preventive 
maintenance programs, and/or field service support. To ensure that the suppliers meet the user’s internal 
quality requirements, as well as good practice guidelines, the end user should evaluate each supplier to 
ensure their ability to meet these expectations. Supplier assessments or audits may be conducted through a 
review of relevant documentation provided by the supplier and/or a physical audit at the supplier’s 
manufacturing, design and development, and testing facilities.  
Some of the assessment areas that should be the focus of an audit include, but are not limited to:  
• 
Quality assurance procedures and standards, including change control and ISO certification 
• 
Results from other audits (regulatory or other users) 
• 
Financial stability 
• 
Availability to provide instrumentation 
• 
Ability to provide an uninterrupted supply of reagents and other consumables 
• 
Ability to respond to field issues of a technical nature 
• 
Ability to provide equipment maintenance 
• 
Training and validation support and associated documentation 
• 
Supplier’s internal validation procedures and data 
• 
Management of software updates, including the impact on validation activities 
Additional information that may support the justification of implementing the supplier’s technology may be 
requested, such as peer-reviewed publications, user manuals, and other relevant documentation. 
Some suppliers may also have submitted additional technology performance information to FDA in the 
form of a Master File. The contents of the Master File are confidential and available only to the FDA. 
Master Files typically include proprietary information specific to the technology or data from validation 
studies. For example, certain types of validation studies, such as ruggedness and robustness, may be 
performed by the supplier and included in a Master File. End users may request a letter of authorization 
from the supplier to allow the FDA to reference the supplier’s Master File to supplement their own 
submissions to the FDA, when appropriate (75). Other regulatory authorities, such as the EMA and other 
agencies, may not have a Master File process in place for AMM/RMM method suppliers. In these cases, it 
may be appropriate to obtain validation data directly from the suppliers and include those in the end user’s 
validation package (75).  
 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
42 
5.1.4 Business Benefits or Return-on-Investment Considerations  
Based on the POC evaluation and other pre-validation activities, a thorough analysis should be conducted to 
determine the technical appropriateness of the AMM/RMM for its intended use. Additionally, a ROI 
analysis may also be helpful to support or justify the business case for purchasing the equipment and its 
subsequent validation and implementation for routine use (see Section 3.4). The final instrument selection 
and purchase should, of course, take place before initiating validation.  
5.1.5 Risk Assessment and Validation Planning 
In keeping with the principles of QRM, the first deliverable of any validation exercise should be a 
documented risk assessment (see Section 3.5). Risk assessments should follow established QRM principles, 
be structured and documented, and be commensurate with the intended use and impact of the AMM/RMM. 
Critical method steps and parameters, technical and scientific risks on method performance, and the 
resulting data should be considered in this assessment. The outcomes for the risk assessment should identify 
critical functions and potential failure modes, which in turn can be used to define the scope and depth of 
validation activities required.  
The next phase is the development of an overall strategy, a validation plan. The end user is responsible for 
ensuring that the validation plan is appropriate and correctly documented. Depending upon an end user’s 
requirements, the validation plan may or may not include pre-validation activities (see Section 5.1). 
When it is determined that the new method requires validation, then an approved validation plan should be 
followed that will govern the process from beginning to end and will detail precisely what activities are 
necessary to produce an appropriately validated system. Another key component of the validation plan is the 
definition of system validation responsibilities, such as the identification of the individuals, organizations, or 
departments responsible for performing, reviewing, and approving the work. The validation plan should also 
specify how deviations from the approved testing strategy are handled, documented, reviewed, and 
approved. There are also situations where validation responsibilities may fall on both the end user and the 
supplier of the new method. 
5.1.6 Design Qualification 
Design qualification (DQ) is the documented review and verification that the proposed design of the 
equipment or system is suitable for its intended purpose, including meeting GMP compliance. Therefore, 
the DQ is most critical if no commercial off-the-shelf equipment is available for the intended application 
and must be specifically designed for that purpose. DQ would typically consider material, instrument, and 
test specifications and capabilities and maintenance and cleaning possibilities. However, since most 
AMM/RMM systems are commercial off-the-shelf equipment, the DQ serves to verify that the equipment 
specifications will meet the requirements identified in the URS. The DQ may also take data from POC 
testing into consideration, when appropriate. While this is termed “qualification” and is part of the 
qualification process, the DQ activity typically occurs prior to the purchase and validation of the method and 
accompanying system. 
The DQ can be performed by the end user or the supplier; however, the end user is responsible for verifying 
that the method and accompanying system meet the requirements specified in the URS. The methods for 
accepting the DQ and an instrument’s suitability for use will be determined by the nature of the instrument, 
the complexity of the proposed application, the complexity of the software used for instrument operation 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
43 
and data analysis, and the prior history with the supplier. Supplier audits, review of documentation provided 
by the supplier, and/or direct examination of the system can satisfy the DQ requirement. 
5.1.7 The Validation Master Plan 
The Validation Master Plan should include a documented roadmap including development studies of all the 
performance functions and requirements for the method and accompanying system, and identify what will 
be tested to ensure that the method and accompanying system performs as specified in the URS. The 
Validation Master Plan may include microbiological and performance characteristics such as system and 
method functionality, configuration, input/outputs, environmental conditions, utilities, computer and 
communication architecture, interfaces, data management, and security. The specific test scripts where each 
performance function or requirement will be evaluated and verified against preestablished acceptance 
criteria are usually contained within the relevant phases of the Validation Master Plan, namely, the IQ, OQ, 
PQ, and Method Validation, including Method Suitability and Comparability sections. The Validation 
Master Plan may be written by the end user, the supplier, or both parties and may also be incorporated into 
other relevant documents depending on a company’s validation requirements or preferences. 
5.2 Equipment and Software Qualification and Validation 
The functionality of an AMM/RMM involves the entire system; therefore, prior to validating the 
AMM/RMM, the testing equipment or instrumentation should be qualified, and the associated 
software/computer system should be validated. For this process, an adaptation to the Analytical Equipment 
Qualification Model may be used (76). 
The steps described in Section 5.2 provide a useful framework that can be applied to the equipment 
qualification and method validation of a complete system, that is, all the components of the new test method 
including any instrumentation, software, firmware, and reagents. This will guide the end user through the 
process steps involved both in the decision-making and the practical work required for implementing a new 
AMM/RMM analytical instrument and associated method(s).  
Note: The framework provided here reflects a highly detailed approach, and some end users may not 
consider some of the deliverables a requirement for commercial off-the-shelf equipment (e.g., conducting a 
design qualification). As such, the overall validation strategy for a particular method should be evaluated in 
a risk assessment and documented in the validation plan (see Section 5.2.1). 
Not all the activities in each section need to be carried out in serial order; as such, parallel path activities can 
occur (e.g., combining the installation qualification (IQ) and operational qualification (OQ), if appropriate). 
However, some activities should not begin until previous activities have been completed, for example, the 
PQ should be initiated only after the OQ acceptance criteria have been met, and this phase of the validation 
plan has been reviewed and approved.  
Finally, it may not be possible to verify every feature associated with every piece of equipment. Therefore, a 
decision should be made regarding the relevance of testing those features of the system (e.g., during the IQ 
and OQ) that will not be used during the routine use of the new test method. One way to address this type of 
concern is to obtain a certificate of conformance for those features within the instrument received from the 
supplier of the system. Alternately, the validation plan should specifically exclude those features and the 
reason they will not be tested. For example, a system may offer the option to document assay parameters via 
a thermal printer or a regular printer. Depending on which option an end user decides to pursue, the other 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
44 
may not be applicable and, therefore, not in scope for testing. Similarly, if a computer function will not be 
used routinely, then that computer function may not need to be tested during computerized system 
validation. 
5.2.1 Documentation of the Validation Protocol 
The execution of the validation plan, test results, and verification that acceptance criteria have been met 
must be adequately documented. Accordingly, relevant worksheets or checklists may be incorporated into 
each of the validation plan phases (i.e., IQ, OQ, PQ).  
5.2.2 Documentation of the Working Procedure 
Written procedures should be developed that specify the appropriate use of equipment or instrumentation, 
method workflow, and other work instructions to allow for the proper and consistent execution of the 
validation plan. These procedures may be captured in qualification protocols or standard operating 
procedures, depending on the end user’s policies. Certain procedures may need to be in place and approved 
for certain phases of the validation plan. The need for effective instructions is important so that personnel 
can understand exactly how to perform the new test and operate and maintain the associated 
instrumentation.  
Additionally, the analysts who will conduct the validation and/or operate the system should be appropriately 
qualified for these purposes. Therefore, training and developmental studies should be completed before the 
validation activities begin; such training may be conducted in-house (usually during the initial 
commissioning of the equipment) and/or at the supplier’s own training facility, when available. 
Appropriate documentation of personnel training is important to verify compliance with regulatory 
requirements. 
5.2.3 Computer System Validation and System Integration 
For equipment or instruments that contain a computerized system, a computerized system validation must 
be included during the equipment qualification. As per FDA Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug 
Administrative Staff: Computer Software Assurance for Production and Quality System Software, software 
validation is: 
…confirmation by examination and provision of objective evidence that software 
specifications conform to user needs and intended uses, and that the particular requirements 
implemented through software can be consistently fulfilled (77). 
System integration usually refers to information technology (IT), or computer systems, and involves 
bringing together all of the component subsystems into a single operating system and ensuring that all of the 
components of the system function appropriately. If the AMM/RMM technology requires connection to a 
separate data management storage and retrieval system, such as a LIMS or similar platform, system 
integration and validation between those various components may be required. In cases where the LIMS 
supplier assumes responsibility for the interface, the instrument supplier may provide only the instrument 
output in a predefined, documented format, while the LIMS supplier develops, configures, and validates the 
interface logic independently.  
 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
45 
5.2.4 Equipment Installation Qualification 
IQ studies should establish that the equipment is properly and safely installed with the correct utilities in an 
appropriate laboratory or, in some cases, in a manufacturing environment. A significant part of IQ is a 
verification that all new equipment was received and meets the design specifications for the equipment 
ordered. Any exceptions to the original specifications should be documented, showing the corrected 
specification and approvals. Also, it should note that an IQ is instrument-specific and portions of an IQ may 
need to be repeated if the equipment is moved within the laboratory or to another user site. An exception to 
this rule may be for instrumentation designed to be portable. 
IQ studies should be performed in accordance with an approved protocol. Examples of the fundamental 
types of information to be included in an IQ document include system descriptions, utility requirements, 
operating environmental conditions, safety features, calibration requirements, software to be installed, and 
supporting documentation (e.g., technical manuals, blueprints, drawings).  
Computerized or microprocessor-controlled systems should also document important features such as dip-
switch settings, cabling connections, microprocessor chips used, computer configuration, any special 
features of the equipment required, printer connections, buffers, files, and memory requirements. In 
addition, the software required and its appropriate version numbers should be documented, including any 
operating systems used by the computer. 
The IQ may be carried out by the supplier during the initial installation or system integration of the 
equipment and witnessed by the end user. However, depending on the extent of the supplier’s IQ, as 
compared with receiving the end user’s validation requirements, a separate and more extensive IQ may also 
be performed by the end user.  
5.2.5 Equipment Operational Qualification 
The OQ verifies and documents that relevant system parts or functionalities (and, if applicable, associated 
software) work within predetermined limits when operated in accordance with its operational procedures. 
Typical OQ parameters may, for instance, be verification of specified heating or cooling rates and adequate 
performance of probes, sensors, and optical systems or proper functioning of the user interface.  
Furthermore, there is an expectation that any system that will be used to generate electronic records or 
electronic signatures is appropriately validated for this use, for example, to generate records that are accurate 
and reliable and can be appropriately maintained and accessed in compliance with the expectations in 21 
CFR Part 11: Electronic Records; Electronic Signatures. Other examples of computer testing that may be 
performed during the OQ include, but are not limited to, administrator control and operator access, user ID 
and password setup, user and system lockout, data integrity, audit trails, report generation, system 
integration, data transfer and server communication, data backup and recovery, database management and 
integrity, and interference (radio frequency, electromagnetic or wireless). In addition to 21 CFR Part 11, 
guidance and requirements regarding the validation of computer systems may be found in EU Annex 11: 
Computerised Systems and ISPE Good Automated Manufacturing Practice (GAMP) (78-80).  
5.2.6 Equipment Performance Qualification 
PQ provides documented confirmation that the equipment, as installed and operated in accordance with 
operational procedures, consistently performs in accordance with predetermined criteria to yield appropriate 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
46 
results. This may be demonstrated, for instance, through application of an experimental setup that may 
encompass an appropriate selection and detection limit of test microorganisms.  
Qualification can also be demonstrated by running assay controls depending on the technology (e.g., nucleic 
acid standards such as exogenous and endogenous positive controls, no template, no amplification controls). 
For the purposes of PQ, the assay controls may be considered representative samples of actual product 
testing for the method. The parameters selected should be based on the method’s detection system and 
suitability acceptance criteria. Normally, the supplier of the equipment will perform these types of studies to 
generate “primary validation” data to demonstrate that the equipment is capable of detecting, enumerating, 
and identifying microorganisms, depending on the intended application(s).  
Microorganisms suspended in a suitable diluent are used during primary validation studies and are not actual 
test samples or product, the latter of which are used during method suitability and comparability testing.  
An end user may choose to perform additional testing to verify or supplement supplier-provided primary 
validation data. It is the end user’s responsibility to determine when this type of additional testing is 
warranted, for example, if an end user plans to use the method with different organisms of interest than the 
supplier’s testing, if different incubation conditions (time/temperature) are desired, or if the end user’s 
application is different from its original design or intended use (using a quantitative method as a 
presence/absence method).  
5.3 Primary Validation, Method Suitability, and Comparability Testing 
The validation process for AMM/RMMs should result in documented evidence that the equipment or 
instrumentation, as installed and operated in accordance with established sample preparation and workflow 
procedures, consistently performs in accordance with predetermined criteria and thereby yields correct and 
appropriate results.  
Validation is performed in phases by both suppliers of AMM/RMM and stakeholders who will implement 
the methods for routine use. These phases include primary validation by the supplier, method suitability in 
the presence of the test sample, and comparability in the presence of the test sample. Each of these phases 
are summarized in Sections 5.3.1-5.3.3. 
Note: When a previously validated AMM/RMM is to be replaced by a new generation of the method or by 
another AMM/RMM, which impacts the original validated state of the AMM/RMM or the previously 
validated AMM/RMM’s comparability to the original CMM, then the new AMM/RMM to be implemented 
must be validated against the CMM, not against the established AMM/RMM. 
5.3.1 Primary Validation 
Primary validation is usually performed by the supplier, customarily in the absence of a test sample; 
however, some suppliers may include common or universal test sample matrices to demonstrate test sample 
suitability when introduced into the instrument or workflow. Suppliers should also provide the end user with 
primary validation test data demonstrating the system and method that will detect, enumerate, and/or 
identify microorganisms.  
Primary validation should demonstrate that the workflow is adequate in obtaining the intended target to be 
detected by the technology. This may include, for example, procedures for extracting cellular targets from 
viable microorganisms, establishing minimum incubation times for enrichment steps, or activation 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
47 
conditions for the uptake of viability stains. The use of surrogate targets, such as purified nucleic acids, 
ATP, or standardized fluorescent beads, may also be used to demonstrate that the technology is capable of 
detecting the intended target, as long as the target is appropriate for the technology. 
The end user is responsible for reviewing and verifying the primary validation data to determine if the 
information is sufficient to support the end user's validation plan. 
Normally, the end user is not required to repeat a supplier's primary validation studies unless one or more of 
the following apply: 
• 
Test method is employed differently than what is defined by the supplier 
• 
Equipment parameters are altered by the end user 
• 
Panel of organisms used by the supplier are not representative of the organisms relevant to the end 
user's requirements 
• 
Supplier did not conduct any primary validation studies 
In these instances, the end user would need to perform the primary validation using relevant microorganisms 
and in the absence of product or actual test samples. End users may consider using surrogate analytes, as 
appropriate for the technology, to demonstrate that alterations to the AMM/RMM still detect the intended 
cellular target, as long as the method will continue to capture the target from viable cells for analysis. 
When performing primary validation, the supplier should select the appropriate validation criteria to 
evaluate (e.g., pertaining to a qualitative or quantitative method). However, because some AMM/RMM 
applications may overlap (e.g., a method may offer both quantitative and qualitative capabilities), suppliers 
should assess relevant validation criteria to demonstrate all of the intended applications. 
For qualitative applications, the supplier should assess specificity (using an appropriate number of relevant 
organisms), LoD, ruggedness (e.g., intermediate precision), and robustness. 
For quantitative applications, the supplier should assess specificity (using an appropriate number of relevant 
organisms), accuracy, repeatability (within-run variability), limit of quantification (LoQ), range, linearity, 
ruggedness (e.g., intermediate precision), and robustness. 
The supplier can also evaluate relevant validation criteria, in both the AMM/RMM and a CMM, which can 
demonstrate, at a minimum, comparability. This information may provide the end user with a level of 
confidence that the AMM/RMM will be an appropriate alternative to a CMM intended to be replaced by the 
AMM/RMM. 
For AMM/RMMs that rely on the growth of microorganisms, the supplier should establish minimum 
incubation times when performing studies against the relevant validation criteria. 
5.3.2 Method Suitability 
Method suitability testing is a product or test sample-specific validation that should be performed in the 
presence of the test sample using the intended sample preparation steps and workflow for the AMM/RMM. 
Each novel test sample or product formulation should be assessed for suitability (i.e., compatibility with the 
workflow and instrumentation) unless otherwise justified via a risk assessment (e.g., when a prior study was 
performed on a similar sample matrix, or a formulation with a higher concentration of a sample component, 
such as an API). Where applicable, method suitability should account for product batch-to-batch variability. 
The number of distinct batches evaluated should be scientifically justified, as differences in raw materials, 
manufacturing conditions, or product age may influence microbial recovery, signal interference, or matrix 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
48 
effects. In general, evaluation of three (3) independent batches is commonly considered appropriate, if 
available, unless otherwise justified based on risk assessment and product knowledge. 
Validated methods that are addressed in a compendial test chapter may necessitate specific method 
suitability studies to be performed. End users should consult with the relevant pharmacopeias for additional 
guidance and testing requirements.  
Method suitability testing should be performed on a sample matrix prior to conducting intended use or 
comparability studies using a relevant panel of microorganisms that have been chosen based on the type of 
test being validated (e.g., compendial strains), frequency and type of previously recovered organisms from 
the test sample (using the CMM), process, or the manufacturing environment or organisms that may present 
a risk to product, process, and/or the patient). These studies demonstrate the suitability of the method to 
detect and/or quantify microorganisms in the presence of the test sample.  
A justification may be used to support not evaluating facility or environmental isolates or organisms 
naturally occurring in the test sample if these are similar to compendial indicator organisms.  
Alternatively, a separate method suitability study may not be required if the sample matrix is evaluated 
during intended use or comparability testing, as long as a relevant panel of microorganisms is and the 
concentration of the challenge organisms is within a numerical range usually used during method suitability 
testing (e.g., less than 100 CFU, but not necessarily at the AMM/RMM's purported LoD or LoQ).  
Method suitability testing should be performed during transfer of the method to a different facility to 
demonstrate that the facility can perform the method appropriately. Additional method suitability studies 
may be required, especially if local facility isolates pose a risk to the product, processes, or patient, and 
those same isolates were not assessed by the initial test validation site. A risk assessment should be 
performed to determine whether additional studies by the secondary facility are warranted (e.g., whether 
local isolates not represented in the initial validation studies should be considered or to perform a limited 
method suitability test to verify the method transfer was executed appropriately) (see Section 6.4).  
Method suitability testing should demonstrate an absence of unacceptable enhancement of signals or 
background noise (e.g., false positives) or the inhibition, masking, occlusion, or interference in detecting 
viable microorganisms (e.g., false negatives). These studies are usually performed by the end user, but may 
be contracted to an external party, such as the AMM/RMM supplier or a contract facility. For AMM/RMMs 
that cannot be directly challenged by the end user (e.g., air-monitoring biofluorescent particle counters), 
method suitability may be carried out under actual-use conditions, such as in a controlled environment 
where the challenge levels are consistent, or by the supplier who has the capability of performing 
standardized testing using a panel of microorganisms. 
False-positive testing is performed in the presence of the test sample but in the absence of challenge 
organisms. 
False-negative testing is performed using a relevant panel of challenge organisms under actual-use 
conditions. 
Qualitative methods should demonstrate a positive response in the presence of challenge microorganisms. 
Quantitative methods should recover at least 50% of the challenge microorganisms inoculated into the test 
sample when compared with a control sample (e.g., a suitable diluent).  
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
49 
For AMM/RMMs that rely on the growth of microorganisms, the minimum incubation times established 
during primary validation should be verified; otherwise, incubation times may need to be revised based on 
the results obtained during method suitability or comparability testing (whichever incubation time is greater) 
in the presence of the test sample.  
5.3.3 Comparability Testing in the Presence of the Test Sample 
Comparability testing is usually performed by the end user in the presence of the test sample using the 
AMM/RMM and the CMM. The intent of comparability testing is to demonstrate that the detection of 
microorganisms in a qualitative method or the enumeration of recovered microorganisms in a quantitative 
AMM/RMM is comparable, not statistically different than or superior to, the detection of microorganisms in 
the CMM, depending on the statistical method used to compare the data (81). The validation criteria 
assessed during comparability testing will be based on the AMM/RMM's application (e.g., LoD and 
specificity for qualitative methods, accuracy, repeatability, LoQ and specificity for quantitative methods).  
The choice of organisms used during comparability studies should be clearly justified by the end user and 
based on a sound scientific rationale. This may be based on the frequency and type of previously recovered 
organisms from the test sample (using the CMM), the type of test being validated (e.g., compendial strains 
for pharmacopeial procedures monograph tests), environmental or facility isolates, organisms that are 
relevant to challenging the AMM/RMM and the different workflows that may be required (e.g., different 
media for growth-based methods), and/or organisms that may present a risk to the product, the process or 
the patient.  
A justification may be used to support not evaluating facility or environmental isolates or organisms 
naturally occurring in the test sample, if these are similar to compendial indicator organisms. 
It may be appropriate to justify reduced testing during comparability studies (e.g., when the availability of 
test sample is limited). In this instance, the validation of an AMM/RMM to detect microorganisms in the 
presence of the test sample would only require a comparison with the CMM at the detection limit of the 
AMM/RMM in lieu of executing comparability studies covering all validation parameters. However, if 
method suitability and full comparability tests are able to be performed on the test sample, this alternative 
testing strategy would not be necessary.  
Using an appropriate panel of microorganisms, an assessment against relevant validation criteria is 
conducted in the presence of the test sample and only in the AMM/RMM. The selection of validation 
criteria to be assessed can mirror what is performed during the primary validation for qualitative and 
quantitative methods. 
When a prior method-suitability test has been performed on the test sample using a relevant panel of 
microorganisms, the end user may justify selecting a limited number of these same challenge organisms for 
comparability studies (e.g., all the method-suitability test organisms do not need to be evaluated during 
comparability studies). However, if a prior method-suitability test was never performed or the data 
generated during comparability studies will also be used to support method suitability, the end user should 
consider an appropriate panel of relevant microorganisms to support these studies.  
The actual challenge level(s) for these studies are determined by the end user and may be based on the 
intended test procedure or the required level of microorganism detection or recovery. For example, testing at 
the AMM/RMM's purported LoD or LoQ may require a challenge level of 1–5 microbial cells or, 
alternatively, a series of dilutions into the fractional range could be evaluated.  
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
50 
When the test sample is expected to contain naturally occurring bioburden, these organisms may also be 
considered, given the target of the test.  
Comparability testing for qualitative applications should be performed in the presence of the test sample and 
should address specificity and LoD in the AMM/RMM and the method to which it is being compared.  
Comparability testing for quantitative applications should be performed in the presence of the test sample 
and should address specificity. The challenge concentration(s) employed should be relevant to the level of 
microorganisms required to be recovered and quantified, which could be at or near the LoQ and/or at a 
particular specification level.  
For qualitative and quantitative applications, ruggedness (intermediate precision) may also be assessed. 
Based on the AMM/RMM, however, depending on the type of product or test sample and the manufacturing 
process, the results from ruggedness studies performed by the supplier during primary validation (in the 
absence of product) may be used. 
For AMM/RMMs that rely on the growth of microorganisms, the minimum incubation times established 
during primary validation and/or method suitability testing should be verified; otherwise, incubation times 
may need to be revised based on the results obtained during comparability testing (e.g., whichever 
incubation time is greater).  
When a test sample has successfully met the acceptance criteria for comparability, it may not be necessary 
to repeat comparability testing for new samples that have a similar formulation or matrix. However, new test 
samples that are fundamentally different in composition, may introduce background noise or interference, or 
may affect the AMM/RMM to detect microorganisms may require comparability testing. An example may 
be the difference between a human cell-based therapy versus an oligopeptide-based product.  
5.3.4 Unique Methods Requiring Additional or Modified Validation Strategies 
The method validation testing strategies discussed in TR 33 primarily use standardized microbial cultures in 
liquid suspension. The possibility exists, however, that some AMM/RMM detection systems may need to 
consider different approaches, especially if a liquid suspension cannot physically be introduced into the 
detection system for analysis. Technologies that use airborne, aerosol, or other nonliquid-based samples 
may fall into this category. Therefore, expanding or adapting these validation strategies may be appropriate, 
as long as the testing methods are scientifically justified. Because the end user may not possess the expertise 
or specialized equipment to conduct such studies, the vendor may need to play a greater role in supporting 
the end user during the validation of these types of technologies.  
5.4 Recommendations for Conducting Validation Studies 
Sections 5.4.1-5.4.11 provide recommendations for each of the validation criteria, including testing 
procedures, acceptance criteria, and statistical analyses for quantitative and qualitative AMM/RMMs. 
Validation testing may also be designed and executed where the data from one validation criteria study may 
be used for several other validation criteria requirements. For example, the data derived during the test for 
linearity may also be used for the test for accuracy.  
Note: These recommendations are not all-inclusive, and suppliers and stakeholders may find alternative 
strategies (e.g., revised, additional, or reduced testing based on risk assessments) that are also satisfactory 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
51 
for use and accepted by regulators. In this instance, stakeholders are encouraged to discuss their validation 
strategies with relevant regulatory authorities prior to initiating their proposed validation plan.  
5.4.1 Specificity 
See the definition of specificity in Section 2.0.  
Specificity is demonstrated when a relevant panel of microorganisms is used to challenge the AMM/RMM 
during the assessment of other validation criteria (e.g., accuracy, repeatability, LoD, LoQ), and when 
conducting method suitability and comparability testing. As such, there is no requirement to perform a 
separate or dedicated specificity study.  
5.4.1.1 Specificity Testing Procedure 
An AMM/RMM is generally expected to detect and/or enumerate a wide range of microorganisms unless 
the AMM/RMM is specifically designed to detect a single target of interest (e.g., Staphylococcus aureus). 
When selecting a panel of microorganisms, consideration should be given to the type of test being validated 
(e.g., strains required for a CMM), limitations to the AMM/RMM under evaluation, the frequency and type 
of organisms previously recovered from the test sample (using the CMM), the manufacturing process and 
environment, and the organisms that may present a risk to the product quality, the process, or the patient. 
Accordingly, microorganisms can include a variety of Gram-negative and Gram-positive rods, Gram-
positive sporulating bacteria, Gram-positive cocci, yeast, and mold.  
For growth-based methods, the selection of organisms may need to demonstrate microbial detection in 
different media and incubation conditions, based on the technology being assessed.  
The concentration of microorganisms used will be dictated by the validation criteria being assessed.  
For AMM/RMMs that will detect the presence/absence of specific target microorganisms, a relevant panel 
should include the target microorganism and appropriate nontarget, unrelated, and closely related species to 
demonstrate inclusivity and exclusivity, respectively.  
An appropriate low concentration for inclusivity and an appropriate high concentration for exclusivity 
testing must be used. 
Organisms may be commercially sourced or established within the end user’s laboratory.  
Pure cultures of a specific microorganism are generally utilized; however, if an AMM/RMM has 
multiplexing or simultaneous detection capabilities, the use of mixed cultures may be considered to assess 
this capability.  
Specificity may also include demonstrating that nonviable cells are not detected by the AMM/RMM, 
particularly for nongrowth-based technologies where detection of nonviable cells could be interpreted as a 
false-positive result depending on the intended use. These types of studies may be most relevant during the 
establishment of method suitability. End users should consider practical and appropriate procedures for 
preparing nonviable cells (e.g., temperature treatment, exposure to biocidal agents).  
The use of stressed organisms is not recommended, as there are no currently accepted global standards for 
generating cultures in a stressed state.  
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
52 
5.4.1.2 Specificity Statistical Analysis 
The selection of appropriate statistical analyses will be dependent on the validation criteria the 
microorganisms are being used to assess. 
5.4.1.3 Specificity Acceptance Criteria 
Acceptance criteria will be based on the requirements of the validation criteria being evaluated. 
5.4.2 Accuracy 
See the definition of accuracy in Section 2.0. 
5.4.2.1 Accuracy Testing Procedure 
Separate dilutions of a relevant panel of microorganisms must be prepared within the practical range of the 
quantitative test or to the enumeration levels required for the intended application. The number of separate 
dilutions prepared should be justified. Examples of what may be considered include: 
• 
The end user’s microbial specifications, based on compendial requirements or internal acceptance 
levels  
• 
The suppliers purported lower-to-upper quantitation range 
• 
A practical range as defined in published literature 
• 
If one dilution is used, it should be in the middle of the practical range of the test. If the range of the 
test is different for specific organisms (e.g., bacteria versus fungi), then that dilution may be used 
for each  
• 
If the practical range of the test is broad, more than one dilution should be considered  
See Section 5.4.1 for examples of what relevant microorganisms should be considered. 
An appropriate number of replicates per test organism should be used (e.g., a minimum of five (5) replicates 
per organism) to meet the requirements for the intended data analysis and/or test power. See Section 9.0 
(Appendix 1) through Section 11.0 (Appendix 3) for additional guidance. 
A greater number of replicates or test runs may be used when combining accuracy with other validation tests 
(e.g., precision, range, linearity). Accuracy may also be combined with ruggedness (intermediate precision) 
by testing on different days, with different analysts, and/or using different instruments. 
For each organism, the same number of cells or volume from each dilution into the AMM/RMM and the 
CMM in parallel must be challenged. Parallel testing using the same suspension is preferable; however, if 
parallel testing is not performed, the experiment and statistical analysis need to address the possible 
differences in spikes across suspensions. Parallel testing may suggest a statistically “paired” analysis (e.g., 
paired t-test), because the samples tested with the AMM/RMM and CMM come from the same suspension, 
but such statistical approaches only apply when the enumeration of both methods are conducted on the same 
samples, not the same suspension.  
The recovery count from each replicate must be determined and the mean recovery for each organism and in 
each method calculated. 
 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
53 
5.4.2.2 Accuracy Statistical Analysis 
A test to demonstrate equivalence, comparability, or statistical difference between the recovered counts in 
both methods should be used, for example:  
A two one-sided equivalence test (TOST) that uses a proper 90% confidence interval on the 
difference in or ratio between the method’s expected values (or mean count) can 
demonstrate statistical equivalence between the two methods, given a suitable equivalence 
margin. However, if the AMM/RMM is more sensitive than the CMM and may generate 
statistically higher counts, a noninferiority test that uses a proper one-sided 95% confidence 
limit on the difference in or ratio between the expected values should be used. Depending 
on the probability distribution assumption for the underlying enumerations, the following 
approaches can be used when the AMM/RMM is compared to the CMM for one 
microorganism using one concentration: 
• 
If the counts can be assumed to be Poisson- or Negative-Binomial-distributed, closed-form 
asymptotic confidence limits can be used on the ratio of the expected values of the two methods 
using Poisson or Negative-Binomial regression analysis (and the logarithmic link function).  
• 
If no parametric distribution can be assumed (on the original or transformed count data), then 
nonparametric confidence limits can be considered (e.g., those that are developed for comparing 
differences in medians), but nonparametric approaches usually have poorer power and require a 
larger number of replicates than parametric approaches. 
• 
Making use of confidence limits based on regression-modeling approaches (linear regression or 
nonlinear modeling approaches (Poisson regression)) for the estimation of concentration-response 
curves when multiple concentrations are considered simultaneously may also be considered. 
• 
If mean values are considered and a normal distribution can be assumed, approximately (possibly 
after suitable transformation) normal or conventional confidence limits can be used for TOST 
(either from a dependent- or independent-samples t-test for paired or independent samples, 
respectively). However, it is important to confirm that the number of test runs is of adequate size to 
ensure the results are representative of the true condition of the data populations and, hence, will 
provide more accurate or reliable test results. 
The data from different challenge-organism replicate tests may need to be pooled to achieve the desired test 
power. If this is done, the results from individual challenge organisms should be reviewed to determine 
whether the pooled results are acceptable (e.g., the results for a specific organism are not masked by pooling 
all of the replicates across multiple-challenge organisms). Accordingly, a justification for the statistical 
method used (e.g., pooling versus individual organism analyses) should be performed.  
See Section 9.0 (Appendix 1) through Section 11.0 (Appendix 3) for additional guidance on the selection of 
an appropriate statistical analysis method based on the desired test power and number of replicates. 
5.4.2.3 Accuracy Acceptance Criteria 
Specific acceptance criteria will depend on the statistical method used to compare the data from the two 
methods. For example, the mean recovery obtained in the AMM/RMM should be noninferior to, or 
comparable to, the mean recovery obtained in the CMM. If the ratio in the expected counts is being 
compared between the two methods, a comparability margin of 0.7 is often considered. It is common to 
denote this as Δ = 0.3, but this value is not the comparability margin itself, it is one minus the comparability 
margin. In case of equivalence, Δ = 0.3 means that the 90% confidence interval on the ratio of expected 
counts falls within the interval [1 – Δ, 1 + Δ] = [0.7, 1.3].  
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
54 
See Section 9.0 (Appendix 1) through Section 11.0 (Appendix 3) for additional guidance on acceptance 
criteria based on the statistical method used. 
5.4.3 Repeatability 
See the definition of repeatability in Section 2.0. 
The repeatability (or within-run variability) of an AMM/RMM is the degree of agreement among individual 
test results when the procedure is applied repeatedly to multiple samplings of the same suspension of 
microorganisms. Repeatability is usually evaluated in quantitative methods. 
5.4.3.1 Repeatability Testing Procedure 
Repeatability (also known as within-run variability) testing is performed on a set of samples collected from 
the same suspension (replicates) by a single analyst using the same equipment in the same laboratory. 
Intermediate precision (also known as ruggedness) is performed on a set of samples under different 
conditions that would naturally vary during routine use of the AMM/RMM method (e.g., multiple 
suspensions, analysts, days, different instruments). Section 5.4.3.1 focuses on repeatability while Section 
5.4.8 will address intermediate precision (ruggedness). 
At least one dilution should be prepared of a relevant panel of microorganisms within the practical range of 
the quantitative test or what enumeration levels are required for the intended application. The number of 
separate dilutions prepared should be justified. Examples of what may be considered include: 
• 
The end user’s microbial specifications, based on compendial requirements or internal acceptance 
levels. 
• 
The suppliers purported lower-to-upper quantitation range. 
• 
A practical range as defined in published literature. 
• 
If one dilution is used, this should be in the middle of the practical range of the test. If the range of 
the test is different for specific organisms (e.g., bacteria versus fungi), then a particular dilution may 
be used for each.  
• 
If the practical range of the test is large, then more than one dilution should be considered.  
See Section 5.4.1 for examples of what relevant microorganisms should be considered. 
An appropriate number of replicates per test organism should be used, but no fewer than five (5) replicates 
per organism (in alignment with analytical assays), to meet the requirements for the intended data analysis 
and/or test power. A relevant number of replicates or test runs may be used when combining repeatability 
with other validation tests, for example, accuracy, range, or linearity). See Section 9.0 (Appendix 1) through 
Section 11.0 (Appendix 3) for additional guidance. 
Repeatability may preferably be combined with ruggedness (intermediate precision) by testing on different 
days with different analysts and/or using different instruments. 
For each organism, the same number of cells or volume from each dilution into the AMM/RMM should be 
challenged and the CMM should be challenged in parallel. Parallel testing using the same suspension is 
preferable; however, each aliquot from the same suspension will represent an independent sample. If the 
same aliquot can be analyzed in both methods, then these would be treated as dependent samples. The 
manner in which aliquots are used will dictate the appropriate statistical test to utilize, as described in 
Section 5.4.3.2.  
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
55 
5.4.3.2 Repeatability Statistical Analysis 
Repeatability is best expressed in terms of a relative standard deviation (%) or coefficient of variation per 
suspension, either with respect to the spiked level or with respect to the mean count, together with an 
approximate 95% confidence interval for variances using, for instance, the chi-square distribution (not 
addressing the uncertainty in the denominator). Repeatability is best calculated for mean counts larger than 5 
CFU. Due to the variability in counts between test samples as a result of the sampling of test samples, the 
repeatability is expected to be at least in the range of the reciprocal of the square root of the mean count. A 
McKay approximation may possibly be used when the distribution of the counts is approximately normal 
(82). 
A comparison with the CMM can be conducted by demonstrating equal variance between the recovered 
counts in both methods. To demonstrate superiority of the AMM/RMM compared to the CMM, Levene’s 
test (preferably Brown and Forsythe’s version using medians instead of means) can be applied (83). When a 
comparability analysis is desired, an upper 95% confidence limit can be applied on the difference in the 
logarithmically transformed variances (e.g., AMM/RMM less than CMM). 
Depending on the statistical test used, the data from different challenge-organism replicate tests could 
possibly be pooled to achieve the desired test power. If this is done, the results from individual challenge 
organisms should be reviewed to determine whether pooling is acceptable (e.g., the results for a specific 
organism are not masked by the pooling all of the replicates across multiple-challenge organisms). 
Accordingly, a justification for the statistical method used (e.g., pooling versus individual organism 
analyses) should be documented.  
See Section 9.0 (Appendix 1) through Section 11.0 (Appendix 3) for additional guidance on the selection of 
an appropriate statistical analysis method based on the desired test power and number of replicates. 
Note: For the lower concentration of organisms used during these studies (e.g., <10 CFU), the repeatability 
is anticipated to be lower due to the relatively higher variability in counts at these levels. However, this 
would be expected in both the AMM/RMM and the CMM. 
5.4.3.3 Repeatability Acceptance Criteria 
Specific acceptance criteria will depend on the statistical method used to compare the data from the two 
methods. For example, the variance obtained in the AMM/RMM should not be statistically different, is 
noninferior to, or is comparable to the variance obtained in the CMM. A comparability margin of 0.5 on the 
ratio (CMM/AMM) or 0.693 in the natural-log scale on relative standard deviations is common practice. 
See Section 9.0 (Appendix 1) through Section 11.0 (Appendix 3) for additional guidance on acceptance 
criteria based on the statistical method used. 
5.4.4 Limit of Detection 
See the definition of LoD in Section 2.0. 
The LoD is usually evaluated through qualitative or presence/absence methods. 
5.4.4.1 Limit of Detection Testing Procedure 
The intent of the LoD validation criterion is to establish the lowest level at which positive samples are 
detected (commonly at 95% probability (i.e., LoD95)) for the AMM/RMM and the CMM, and to 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
56 
demonstrate the AMM/RMM LoD is comparable from the CMM LoD. The LoD may also be used to justify 
the challenge level of target organisms during inclusivity testing.  
A relevant panel of microorganisms is used when performing LoD studies. See Section 5.4.1 on specificity 
for examples of what relevant microorganisms should be considered. 
The LoD95 should be established as follows: 
1. An LoD established by a single point (e.g., the lowest level detected, such as a single CFU) has 
limited utility because the certainty aspect (e.g., a 95% confidence level) may not be precisely 
determined. Modeling approaches based on empirical data, such as probit analysis, allow the 
calculation of an LoD at a desired level of certainty (e.g., 95%) and is recommended when 
establishing the LoD for an AMM/RMM.  
2. For each microorganism, a series of serial dilutions into the fractional range should be prepared, 
with the first dilution having a microbial concentration expected to give all positive results. The 
dilutions should include a level that represents the purported LoD from the AMM/RMM supplier. 
For example, dilutions of 10, 1, and 0.1 CFU, or 5, 0.5, and 0.05 CFU, or 2, 1.2, 0.7, 0.4, and 0.25 
CFUs may be considered. For precise estimation of the LoD, it is better to use five concentrations.  
3. For an appropriate test power, each dilution should be composed of at least 20 to 40 replicates. Data 
from multiple challenge organisms can be pooled to reduce the replicates per dilution when the 
statistical analysis approach incorporates the different microorganisms. 
4. The same number of cells or volume from each prepared suspension should be challenged into the 
AMM/RMM and the CMM in parallel. If parallel testing cannot be performed (i.e., different 
suspensions used in each method), then differences in spiked levels between the suspensions should 
be accounted for during the subsequent analyses.  
5. The number of positive and negative detection-events must be determined for each microorganism 
replicate in the AMM/RMM and in the CMM. 
6. If the fraction of positive replicates equals 1 or 0 for two dilution concentrations, other appropriate 
dilution levels should be selected. 
The AMM/RMM LoD should be compared to the CMM LoD as follows: 
1. The data generated when establishing the LoD95 can be used to compare the LoD in the 
AMM/RMM and in the CMM. 
2. Comparisons of LoDs between methods can be conducted for a single suspension when the 
challenge level can be chosen, such that the same (or similar) number of positives and negatives are 
present in both methods. The stakeholder should choose an appropriate challenge level for the 
intended application, and the data of multiple organisms may be pooled in the analysis.  
3. A most probable number (MPN) method may also be used if the number of replicates and the 
dilution concentration used are consistent with the requirements in the FDA MPN tables (84). The 
stakeholder should determine the number of replicates per dilution concentration that is practical to 
perform the analysis. Most importantly, the number of MPN runs should be sufficient to adequately 
apply the intended statistical analysis. Calculate the MPN and the upper and lower 95% confidence 
intervals for each challenge organism and for each method. Refer to the FDA MPN table relevant to 
the number of replicates used and instructions for selecting dilutions for the calculations. Dilutions 
other than those prescribed in the FDA method may also be considered, although the FDA tables 
should not be used to calculate the final MPN (e.g., using spike levels of 4, 2, 1 CFU rather than the 
FDA-recommended 10-fold dilutions, such as 10, 1, 0.1 CFU). 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
57 
4. Parallel testing using the same suspension is preferable; however, if parallel testing is not 
performed, a statistical analysis must be used that could address the potential differences in spiked 
levels between suspensions and multiple suspensions for each method. 
5.4.4.2 Limit of Detection Statistical Analysis 
When determining the LoD95 in each method, a probit/logit analysis is performed using the positive and 
negative results for the dilution levels assessed. This may also be performed using natural logarithms of the 
dilution levels.  
The data from all microorganism dilutions and replicates are used to achieve the desired test power, but 
pooling data from multiple organisms requires a specialized analysis approach. However, the results from 
individual challenge organisms should be reviewed to determine whether the pooled results are acceptable 
(e.g., the results for a specific organism are not masked by pooling all the replicates across multiple 
challenge organisms). Poolability can be evaluated with hypothesis tests, outlier tests, or goodness-of-fit 
measures (see Section 9.0 (Appendix 1)). 
If the model fit is sufficient according to the chi-square goodness-of-fit test, the analyte concentration at 
which the estimated positive rate equals 95% is the estimated mean number of organisms in the test samples 
that provides a positive result with 95% confidence. The LoD95, which is the exact lowest number of 
organisms that leads to a detection probability of 95%, is typically below this estimated mean number of 
organisms. If the model fit is insufficient, additional replicates or dilutions must be analyzed. 
The method of Most Probable Limit (MPL) can be used when the AMM/RMM is expected to provide a 
LoD of one or two CFUs to demonstrate an almost-perfect method of detection, implying that a direct 
comparison with the CMM is not needed. 
When comparing the AMM/RMM and the CMM LoDs, and depending on the statistical test used, the data 
from different challenge organisms replicate tests may need to be pooled to achieve the desired test power. 
If this is done, the results from individual challenge organisms should be reviewed to determine whether the 
pooled results are acceptable (e.g., the results for a specific organism are not masked by pooling all of the 
replicates across multiple-challenge organisms). Accordingly, a justification for the statistical method used 
(e.g., pooling versus individual organism analyses) should be presented.  
Two statistical approaches provide a reliable comparison: one which uses the well-known standard MPN 
approach repeatedly (i.e., multiple executions of the MPN experiment with possibly adapted spike levels for 
the three dilutions), while a generalized MPN (gMPN) approach can be used for a single dilution. Both 
approaches are suitable to incorporate or pool data from multiple microorganisms. 
If an MPN approach is used for a single microorganism, it is suggested to calculate confidence limits on the 
mean difference in the repeated log-transformed MPNs to demonstrate comparability between the methods 
(similar to accuracy for quantitative methods). In case multiple microorganisms are being pooled, the 
repeated log-transformed MPNs per microorganism are being used in a two-way fixed-effects analysis of 
variance (ANOVA) model to estimate the mean differences in MPNs across microorganisms between both 
methods.  
An alternative, more-specialized analysis approach exists, referred to as the gMPN approach, that can 
compare the detection proportions (i.e., the probability of detecting samples with exactly one 
microorganism) between the two microbiological methods for individual microorganisms and for pooled 
data from multiple microorganisms. When the total number of test samples is identical, the gMPN approach, 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
58 
which uses a single dilution, is more powerful than the MPN approach, but the MPN approach is more 
robust to spiking errors due to the use of multiple dilutions. The gMPN approach is a less straightforward 
analysis than the MPN approach. 
See Section 9.0 (Appendix 1) through Section 11.0 (Appendix 3) for additional guidance on the selection of 
an appropriate statistical analysis method based on the desired test power and number of replicates. 
5.4.4.3 Limit of Detection Acceptance Criteria 
The LoD95 values for each method should be reported. 
When comparing the LoDs, specific acceptance criteria will depend on the statistical method used to 
compare the data from the two methods. For the comparison of MPNs and detection proportions, a 
comparability margin of 0.7, commonly denoted as Δ = 0.3, is common practice. This value is not the 
comparability margin itself, it is one (1) minus the comparability margin. In case of equivalence, Δ = 0.3 
means that the 90% confidence interval on the ratio of expected counts falls within the interval 
[1 – Δ, 1 + Δ] = [0.7, 1.3].  
See Section 9.0 (Appendix 1) through Section 11.0 (Appendix 3) for additional guidance on acceptance 
criteria based on the statistical method utilized. 
5.4.5 Limit of Quantification 
See the definition of LoQ in Section 2.0. 
LoQ is usually evaluated using quantitative methods. 
5.4.5.1 Limit of Quantification Testing Procedure 
LoQ can be determined from the accuracy or linearity studies. 
Several serial dilutions, for which one should be close to the purported LoQ, should be prepared across the 
desired range of the assay in order to ensure that microorganisms are enumerated close to the true 
quantification limit. 
An appropriate panel of microorganisms should be utilized, similar to what would be used during accuracy 
testing. Ideally, the organisms selected would be expected to be quantified by the AMM/RMM at very low 
concentrations. 
The number of replicates used per dilution should be appropriate to reduce the potential for variability at 
very low challenge concentrations. 
Alternatively, the concentration of microorganisms used can also be defined differently, for example, in a 
certificate of analysis from a supplier for commercially prepared microbial challenges, as long as these are 
very accurate at low concentrations. 
The procedures used during accuracy or linearity studies can be followed for reporting recovered 
microorganisms. If recovered counts are less than the challenge concentration, the recovered counts should 
be reported as less than the dilution level and not used to calculate the true LoQ (e.g., if the lowest dilution 
is expected to contain 10 CFU, any count recovered that is less than 10 should be reported as “<10”). 
 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
59 
5.4.5.2 Limit of Quantification Statistical Analysis 
The lowest concentration in the practical range of the assay that meets the acceptance criteria for accuracy 
and/or linearity is considered to be the quantitation limit of the method. 
Data analysis may be based on the fact that microorganisms in an inoculation suspension approximately 
follow a Poisson distribution. 
The most appropriate concentration-response curve (possibly linear or proportional to the spikes) using 
Poisson (or linear) regression should be determined, and the lowest concentration level for which the 99% 
lower confidence limit is above zero on all higher concentrations should be calculated. 
This lowest level is considered the LoQ if accuracy (and possibly repeatability) has been demonstrated at 
this concentration or lower. If not, the LoQ becomes the lowest concentration at which accuracy has been 
demonstrated. 
5.4.5.3 Limit of Quantification Acceptance Criteria 
There is no acceptance criterion for LoQ testing, unless a certain level for the LoQ is required for the 
purpose of the AMM/RMM. In that case, the estimated LoQ in the AMM/RMM should be at or below the 
target or intended LoQ. 
5.4.6 Linearity 
See the definition of linearity in Section 2.0. 
Linearity is usually evaluated using quantitative methods.  
5.4.6.1 Linearity Testing Procedure 
Linearity is a parameter that must be evaluated in relation to accuracy, in particular when accuracy is 
conducted at several concentrations separately (without assuming a concentration-response curve). 
Satisfying linearity would then guarantee that accuracy also holds for each concentration in between any 
two concentrations for which accuracy was demonstrated. 
When accuracy is evaluated using concentration-response curves, the test for linearity is less important and 
may even be unnecessary. 
To be able to investigate linearity, a minimum of three concentrations (across the range of the method) is 
required, but more concentrations are preferred.  
Linearity can be visualized by examining either the actual counts obtained in the AMM/RMM or by 
examining the relative counts with respect to the (true) amount of microorganisms in the dilution (e.g., using 
the spiked concentration level or the expected or mean counts of the CMM). When performed properly, both 
approaches would lead to the same conclusions on linearity. 
5.4.6.2 Linearity of the Actual Counts Obtained in the Alternative/Rapid Microbiological 
Method 
The expected or mean counts of the AMM/RMM is a straight line in the number of microorganisms with a 
nonzero slope. The ideal linear function is a straight line through the origin, in which case linearity is 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
60 
referred to as proportionality. Under proportionality, the slope represents the recovery of the AMM/RMM 
across the investigated range of concentration levels. 
5.4.6.3 Linearity of the Relative Counts of Alternative/Rapid Microbiological Method 
The relative counts of the AMM/RMM (e.g., calculated from the dilutions using an initial spiked 
concentration) is a straight line. The ideal straight line is a horizontal line with a slope equal to zero, since 
the average relative count over all spiked concentrations is an estimate for the recovery of the AMM/RMM. 
5.4.6.4 Linearity Statistical Analysis 
Linearity of the actual counts or the relative count of the AMM/RMM is best evaluated with an appropriate 
regression analysis (e.g., standard linear regression, weighted linear regression, Poisson regression), 
considering the following options: 
• 
Use the p-value of the slope to test that the slope is nonzero. A nonzero slope means that the 
response (counts or relative counts) is dependent on the number of microorganisms. For a 
regression analysis of the AMM/RMM counts, a nonzero slope is required while, for a regression 
analysis of the relative counts, a zero slope is preferable.  
• 
Use the p-value of the intercept to test that the intercept is nonzero. For a regression analysis of the 
AMM/RMM counts, an intercept that is not distinguishable from zero supports proportionality (i.e., 
the slope then represents the mean recovery). For a regression analysis of the relative counts (or 
recoveries), the intercept represents the estimated mean recovery (where the slope should not differ 
significantly from zero) and should be significantly different from zero.  
• 
Apply a goodness-of-fit test to evaluate the appropriateness of linearity by comparing the regression 
line with a more extensive model. For instance, add a quadratic term to the regression analysis or 
compare the regression line with the saturated model (a model that estimates the mean at each 
spiked concentration). The goodness-of-fit test should not be statistically significant. 
• 
The R2 value is only an indirect measure of linearity. The larger the R2 value, the less likely 
linearity is violated, but it is no guarantee that linearity is true since it also depends on the range of 
spike levels being tested. 
Transformation of the counts (e.g., log 10) and/or the concentration level may be a suitable approach for the 
purpose of demonstrating linearity, but the interpretation of the parameters of the regression line will 
change. 
The use of more complex statistical analyses, where the counts of the AMM/RMM and CMM are jointly 
analyzed, are also appropriate. See Section 10.0 (Appendix 2) for additional information. 
5.4.6.5 Linearity Acceptance Criteria 
The criteria on the model parameters are described within the statistical analysis (nonzero intercept and 
slope), and the acceptance criteria depend on what type of outcome (absolute counts, relative counts, or 
transformation) is being studied. A lack-of-fit of the regression line requires a deeper investigation of 
accuracy. For a regression analysis of the AMM/RMM counts as a function of the number of 
microorganisms (e.g., the concentration level or the expected or mean counts of the CMM), it is 
recommended to also require a high R2 value (at least 90%) to show that the AMM/RMM can appropriately 
predict the number of microorganisms in a dilution appropriately. 
 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
61 
5.4.7 Range 
See the definition of range in Section 2.0. 
Range is usually evaluated using quantitative methods. 
5.4.7.1 Range Testing Procedure 
Suppliers and stakeholders can use the same data generated during accuracy, repeatability, and linearity 
studies, as long as the concentrations tested are consistent with the intended range of the assay.  
5.4.7.2 Range Statistical Analysis 
There is no statistical analysis associated with demonstrating range.  
5.4.7.3 Range Acceptance Criteria 
The information that accuracy, repeatability, and linearity are demonstrated within the intended range of the 
assay should be reported.  
5.4.8 Ruggedness 
See the definition of ruggedness in Section 2.0.  
Test conditions to be examined in a ruggedness study include the use of different analysts, different 
instruments, different lots of reagent, or on different days. When performing a ruggedness study, 
intermediate precision is performed within the same laboratory, and reproducibility is performed between 
laboratories. Ruggedness can also be considered the intrinsic resistance to the influences exerted by 
operational and environmental variables on the results of the method. Ruggedness is usually evaluated using 
both quantitative and qualitative methods. 
Ruggedness is usually performed by the supplier, and the data may be accepted by the end user to support 
the validation program and regulatory submissions. The end user should perform a risk assessment of the 
supplier’s data to identify any ruggedness gaps for their intended use of the AMM/RMM and determine if 
additional studies are needed. Ruggedness testing may need to be repeated by the end user if there are 
modifications to the instrument or workflow made by the end user that could render testing by the supplier 
obsolete.  
5.4.8.1 Ruggedness Testing Procedure 
Ruggedness is performed on a set of samples that would naturally vary with routine practice, including, but 
possibly not limited to different analysts, instruments, lots of reagents, and days. 
There is no need to repeat all challenge organisms for ruggedness; it should be performed using the most 
relevant challenge organisms that are most difficult to enumerate.  
Concentrations should be considered similarly as done with repeatability (see Section 5.4.3).  
For a comparison of ruggedness with the CMM, it is preferred that both microbiological methods enumerate 
samples from the same suspension, and the results are used for a comparability test. 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
62 
The appropriate number of runs and replicates per run should be calculated to meet the requirements for the 
intended data analysis and/or test power, but it should never be below the six runs and three replicates per 
run.  
Data can be pooled from different microorganisms when the variability in detection or enumerations is 
(almost) independent of the type of microorganisms. 
If the variety of testing conditions are already included during the testing of certain other validation 
parameters, such as accuracy, then a separate ruggedness study may not be needed if the ruggedness can be 
appropriately determined from the data of this other validation parameter. 
5.4.8.2 Ruggedness Statistical Analysis 
For the estimation of ruggedness for quantitative methods, for each microorganism, concentration level, and 
microbiological method (when both microbiological methods are included in the study), the random effects 
ANOVA (where run is the random factor) is used in case the expected counts (or concentration levels) are 
above five (5) CFUs. 
From the ANOVA, collect the variance components of the within and between-run variability and the mean 
counts. Calculate the ruggedness or intermediate precision as a relative standard deviation (expressed in 
percentages) and conduct the following steps:  
1. Add up the two variance components. 
2. Take the square root of the sum of variance components. 
3. Divide the square root by the mean count. 
4. Multiply by 100%.  
5. Calculate a 95% confidence interval on the sum of the variance components using the Satterthwaite 
approach; take the square root, divide by the mean count, and multiply by 100%. 
6. In case a comparison with the quantitative CMM is needed, use the ruggedness or intermediate 
precision estimates and their standard errors to calculate a 95% lower confidence limit on the ratio 
of the estimates (CMM divided by the AMM/RMM) per microorganism and concentration level. 
This may be evaluated, possibly in the logarithmic scale. 
For the estimation of ruggedness for qualitative methods, demonstrate that the detection of microorganisms 
under the different conditions is independent of or almost unaffected by these different conditions. Logistic 
regression approaches should be used for each microorganism and concentration level to demonstrate that a 
lack-of-effect of these conditions exists (although a combined analysis of microorganisms and 
concentrations is allowed).  
Demonstrating the lack-of-effect can be done for the AMM/RMM separately using comparability or 
conventional hypothesis testing approaches on the coefficients of the logistic regression. 
Demonstrating the lack-of-effect in comparison to the CMM should demonstrate that comparability with the 
CMM is independent of the testing conditions, that is, it should demonstrate that there are no interaction 
effects present.  
More sophisticated statistical analyses (such as a generalized linear mixed model) may be applied as an 
alternative to ANOVA (when counts are less than 5 CFU or when normality of the counts are violated) or 
logistic regression to estimate ruggedness and conduct comparability between the AMM/RMM and CMM. 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
63 
5.4.8.3 Ruggedness Acceptance Criteria 
Absolute criteria on ruggedness depends on the purpose of the method. For quantitative methods, the set of 
criteria in Table 5.4.8.3-1 may be useful for the estimate of ruggedness.  
Table 5.4.8.3-1 Relative Standard Deviation for CFU Ranges 
Mean Count Range (CFU) 
Relative Standard Deviation 
5 – 9 
45% 
10 – 16 
35% 
17 – 45 
25% 
46 – 100 
15% 
101 – 400 
10% 
For a comparison of two quantitative microbiological methods, a comparability margin of 0.5 on the ratio of 
CMM/AMM or 0.693 in the natural-log scale on the relative standard deviations is common practice. For 
qualitative methods, a comparability margin of 0.7 on the detection probability is common practice.  
5.4.9 Robustness 
See the definition of robustness in Section 2.0.  
Robustness is usually performed by the supplier, and the data may be accepted by the end user to support 
the validation program and regulatory submissions. The end user should perform a risk assessment of the 
supplier’s data to identify any robustness gaps in their intended use of the AMM/RMM and determine if 
additional studies are needed. Robustness may need to be repeated by the end user if there are modifications 
made to the instrument or workflow that could render testing by the supplier obsolete. Robustness is usually 
evaluated using both quantitative and qualitative methods (see Section 9.0 (Appendix 1) through Section 
11.0 (Appendix 3)). 
5.4.9.1 Robustness Testing Procedure 
The supplier should determine the impact of variations on critical method and system parameters. These 
may include, but are not limited to, reagent concentrations/volume, environmental conditions (e.g., 
temperature, humidity), instrument operational limits, physical conditions (e.g., vibration), extraction 
methods (where applicable), sample volumes, and incubation parameters. This information provides an 
indication of the limitations of the test method and associated instrumentation.  
A suspension of relevant microorganisms should be prepared, and the recovery (detection or enumeration, 
depending on the test method) should be evaluated against relevant validation criteria (e.g., accuracy, 
repeatability, LoD, LoQ, linearity) after changes to critical parameters have been made. 
For qualitative methods, the supplier can perform LoD testing; for quantitative methods, the supplier can 
perform accuracy and precision testing. The supplier can also perform a study for a specific robustness 
evaluation without having to do a full validation criteria experiment. For example, recovery counts would be 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
64 
within 70% or with no statistical difference in accuracy but with the critical parameter in question; if not, 
then the final parameter should be used for full accuracy studies.  
5.4.9.2 Robustness Statistical Analysis 
Similar statistical analyses and data evaluation approaches for validation criteria (e.g., accuracy, 
repeatability, LoD, LoQ, linearity) may be applied when assessing robustness. 
5.4.9.3 Robustness Acceptance Criteria 
Acceptance criteria for validation criteria (e.g., accuracy, repeatability, LoD, LoQ, linearity) may be applied 
when assessing robustness. Other criteria may be used; for example, for nucleic acid amplification 
technologies, demonstrating the threshold cycle or crossing point values are within acceptable ranges. For 
each test condition, a range should be demonstrated within which the AMM/RMM operates in a robust 
manner. The results should be used to define adequate precautions or limitations when the method is used 
routinely. 
5.4.10 Method Suitability 
See the definition of method suitability in Section 2.0. 
To demonstrate that an AMM/RMM is compatible with specific product formulation or a sample matrix that 
will be routinely assayed, each material should be evaluated for suitability. The potential to produce 
interfering or abnormal results, such as false positives or false negatives needs to be understood. This may 
also include evaluating whether cellular debris, dead microorganisms, or other viable entities, such as 
mammalian cell cultures, have any impact on the ability of the AMM/RMM and accompanying system to 
operate as it is intended. Accordingly, method suitability is evaluated in both quantitative and qualitative 
methods. 
Although it is possible that certain classes of materials will produce similar results, the end user is 
responsible for ensuring that all test samples will be compatible with the new method (see Section 9.0 
(Appendix 1) through Section 11.0 (Appendix 3). 
5.4.10.1 Method Suitability Testing Procedure 
The test sample should be the same as what would be used during routine testing. In some cases, the 
stakeholder may consider using the most challenging matrices, in terms of formulation, potency, and/or 
quantity required for testing, to avoid having to repeat method suitability for similar formulations that would 
not require analysis (e.g., same product classes, matrix with the same formulation composition but using a 
smaller quantity, similar formulations with the exception of a lower concentration of API or excipient).  
Note: The end-user should determine any impact that final packaging may have on the assay prior to 
performing any product grouping approach. For example, modifying final package material may impact the 
number of background particles detected in some non-growth-based AMM/RMMs. 
The test sample should undergo the same specific workflow for the AMM/RMM under evaluation (e.g., 
nucleic acid extraction and amplification steps, organism capture, sample concentration, addition of 
reagents).  
The number of distinct test samples or product batches used to demonstrate method suitability should be 
justified; for example, three (3) separate batches are commonly used, if available.  
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
65 
• 
False-positive testing: Challenge the test sample, which does not contain any challenge 
microorganisms, into the AMM/RMM using the same amount of material and workflow the 
stakeholder intends to use for routine testing. A negative control in the absence of the test sample 
should also be challenged in the AMM/RMM. 
• 
False-negative testing: Using a relevant panel of microorganisms (e.g., similar to what was used 
for other validation criteria-testing, including specificity), inoculate <100 CFU into the same 
amount of material the stakeholder intends to use for routine testing. If the workflow or sample 
preparation steps could affect the viability of microorganisms during these studies, the stakeholder 
should inoculate the test sample prior to performing these steps. A positive control in the absence of 
the test sample, but with microorganisms, should also be challenged in the AMM/RMM. Surrogate 
markers specific to the AMM/RMM may also be added to the test samples; however, the 
stakeholder should demonstrate that these markers would be obtained from viable organisms during 
sample preparation or when using the intended method workflow and be used at a concentration 
that would correlate with a <100 CFU viable cell concentration. Although a <100 CFU challenge is 
specified, this does not necessarily mean the challenge should be at the LoD or LoQ level.  
Stakeholders who perform validation for the intended-use studies (i.e., where microorganisms are 
challenged in actual test samples and assessed against validation criteria but not compared with the CMM), 
method suitability will need to be demonstrated in support of these studies.  
For organism-specific detection methods, the test sample should be spiked with the intended target organism 
(or surrogate target material) for inclusivity testing. The test sample should be spiked with nontarget or 
closely related target organisms (or surrogate target material) for exclusivity testing. 
Additional studies to assess potential interfering materials may also need to be considered. For example, 
certain AMM/RMMs that rely on the detection of microorganisms via biofluorescence may illicit a false-
positive response in the presence of extrinsic particles, disinfectants, or other substances that could fluoresce 
in the AMM/RMM instrument. When applicable, the stakeholder should identify these types of substances 
and challenge the AMM/RMM to determine the potential for false-positive detection events. Similarly, if 
dead cells could illicit a positive detection event in the AMM/RMM, stakeholders may want to consider 
challenging the AMM/RMM with dead or recently killed cells to understand whether the resulting signals 
could be interpreted as a false-positive event. 
5.4.10.2 Method Suitability Statistical Analysis 
There is no statistical analysis associated with demonstrating method suitability.  
5.4.10.3 Method Suitability Acceptance Criteria 
There should be no false positives unless the stakeholder determines some level of positives (or background 
interference) is acceptable for routine use. For example, a baseline measurement in the presence of the test 
sample (but no microorganisms) may be determined. The baseline measurement may then be used to 
determine when a true-positive detection event is observed (e.g., when the result is above an acceptable 
signal-to-noise ratio).  
To minimize the occurrence of false negatives, the detection of microorganisms in the presence of the test 
sample, based on a predefined positive threshold, should be observed for qualitative methods. Similarly, at 
least a 50% recovery (or a factor of 2) for AMM/RMMs that can be directly and quantitatively compared 
with the positive control (organisms or surrogate material in the absence of the test sample) should be 
observed. For quantitative AMM/RMM signals that cannot be directly compared with a CMM (e.g., plate 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
66 
count), alternative strategies may be considered. For additional guidance, see comparability testing in 
Section 5.4.11.1. 
Inclusivity testing should show a positive detection event in the presence of the target organism; exclusivity 
testing should show a negative detection event in the presence of nontarget or closely related organisms.  
If potentially interfering materials are shown to provide a false-positive response, the stakeholder should 
ensure these are absent during routine testing of the sample. Alternatively, strategies for minimizing 
exposure of the AMM/RMM to interfering materials should be considered. For example, when an 
AMM/RMM is used for EM and certain disinfectants are known to cause a false-positive event, sampling 
should commence only after the disinfection activity has ended and residual disinfectant has been cleared 
from the sampling area.  
5.4.11 Comparability 
See the definition of comparability in Section 2.0. 
The signal from a growth-based CMM will usually be reported as a CFU on solid agar or on a membrane 
and as visual turbidity in liquid media. Examples of methods that produce a signal other than the CFU or 
turbidity are fluorescent units from a viability-staining and laser-excitation method, relative light units or 
microcolony detection counts from ATP measurements, a positive response from a nucleic acid 
amplification technique, or intrinsic, autofluorescent bioparticle counts. While many AMM/RMMs analyze 
individual samples at one time, resulting in a single-data signal, other methods have the capability to 
produce large amounts of data over a longer sampling period, even under continuous sampling conditions.  
As such, the manner in which comparability testing is performed will depend on a number of factors, 
including whether the signals from the AMM/RMM and the CMM can be directly or indirectly compared. 
For example, AMM/RMMs that produce a CFU signal can be directly compared with conventional CFU-
based methods using similar validation criteria as that used during primary validation. However, 
AMM/RMMs that produce a non-CFU signal may or may not be directly compared with a CFU, and this 
may be reflected in the manner in which the data is obtained, the samples analyzed in both methods, and 
other factors. Section 5.4.11 provides guidance on options for comparing the same or different signals and 
addressing the need to separate out nonmicrobiological detection events such as true false positives.  
Ideally, test samples should not cause interference, false-positive or false-negative outcomes. This can be 
assessed during method suitability studies, preferably prior to conducting comparability testing (see Section 
5.4.10).  
When the AMM/RMM and CMM use the same microorganism-related signal, comparability should 
typically focus on noninferiority using similar validation criteria as that used during primary validation. 
When the AMM/RMM produces a non-CFU signal and the CMM produces a CFU, comparability should 
focus on noninferiority or superiority, as it is commonly accepted that non-CFU or nongrowth-based signals 
can provide greater recovery or detection events due to the ability to recovery stressed, injured, or VBNC 
organisms. This aligns with the decision-equivalence concept described in USP ⟨1223⟩. 
5.4.11.1 Comparability Testing Procedure 
The amount of test sample used and the number of independent determinations for comparability studies 
should be justified and explained. For example, at least three (3) lots of product, if available, or a practical 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
67 
number of tests performed over some period of time may be considered. When a statistical analysis is 
performed on the resulting data, the number of independent determinations should be adequate for the 
intended analysis (e.g., to meet a certain test power). Depending on the type of study, the test plan should 
consider what has already been performed during prior studies (e.g., primary validation) to potentially 
reduce the amount of testing and test material required to demonstrate comparability. 
If a consistent level of natural bioburden is present in the test sample, then the methods should be directly 
challenged with the test samples. If the samples are not expected to contain microorganisms, however, or if 
the natural bioburden is not consistent or adequately controlled, laboratory studies using inoculated 
challenge organisms, similar to validation criteria-testing in absence of the test sample, may be performed. 
When using challenge organisms, an adequate panel and concentration of relevant strains appropriate for the 
AMM/RMM being evaluated should be selected. For example, growth-based AMM/RMMs should consider 
the use of slow-growing microorganisms and/or strains specific to testing the required media employed in 
the AMM/RMM procedure; nongrowth-based methods may consider more difficult types of organisms to 
detect, such as spores. If there is a low availability of test sample, the end user may justify performing 
comparability testing with a limited number of organism strains. Alternatively, the end user may justify 
using a similar sample matrix to test all of the relevant challenge organisms. 
Alternative challenge material may be considered when viable microorganisms would not provide a set of 
results that can be compared with the AMM/RMM. Examples may include purified nucleic acid, cellular 
components such as ATP, or standardized biofluorescent beads. When alternative challenge material is used, 
it must be appropriate for the AMM/RMM under evaluation.  
Some AMM/RMMs may produce data representative of multiple or continuous sampling events, making it 
more challenging to compare the data with a CMM that produces only a single test-sample result. For these 
reasons, the stakeholder may not be able to numerically correlate non-CFU signals to the CFU. The goal is 
then to determine ranges of CFU signals for the CMM for given levels of non-CFU signals. Section 5.4.11.2 
provides guidance on how to demonstrate comparability and how to make a quality decision about the test 
sample in this regard. 
5.4.11.2 Comparability Statistical Analysis 
Statistical analyses should be commensurate with the intent of the study and the expected results 
(comparability, equivalence, or superiority). If the AMM/RMM is using a non-CFU signal, it could be 
necessary to obtain either a prediction model from non-CFU-to-CFU signals or otherwise obtain an upper 
limit on the CFU signal, given the non-CFU signal. 
5.4.11.2.1 Comparability of Qualitative Methods 
Because the data will always be presented as a positive or negative result, the data from different methods 
can be directly compared, regardless of the detection-event signal. As such, comparability may be 
demonstrated in similar ways LoD and specificity are assessed in the absence of test sample (i.e., using an 
appropriate conventional hypothesis or a comparability statistical test). 
5.4.11.2.2 Comparability of Quantitative Methods 
When individual test samples can be evaluated in the AMM/RMM and numerical values are obtained in 
each method, comparability can be conducted using similar testing procedures and statistical analyses to 
those for accuracy, repeatability, and specificity during primary validation or validation-for-intended-use to 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
68 
demonstrate comparability or superiority, depending on the comparison of signals (85). Obtaining a 
prediction model using some form of regression analysis to be able to predict CFU-signals from non-CFU 
signals or to obtain a natural range of CFU signals may be beneficial (see Section 9.0 (Appendix 1) through 
Section 11.0 (Appendix 3). A prediction model requires a specific study with different CFU concentrations 
and multiple samples per concentration. 
For AMM/RMMs that do not analyze individual samples but operate continuously or cannot be challenged 
with known microorganisms (i.e., using artificially inoculated test samples), other strategies for 
demonstrating comparability to a CMM can be employed. Examples of this include BFPCs which are used 
for environmental or water monitoring. For AMM/RMM such as these, the following options may be 
considered: 
• 
Initial studies using only the AMM/RMM may help to define the normal or expected baseline levels 
for the AMM/RMM in the presence of the test sample or the test environment. The environmental 
conditions of the area under investigation should be well defined and be expected to represent 
routine operations. Activities that are not considered routine when monitoring should be identified 
and excluded from baseline studies. Excursions from baseline levels may help define what an out-
of-expectation (OOE) result is in the AMM/RMM. This is done by calculating the upper control 
limits for the normal signals (e.g., two or three times the acceptable signal-to-noise ratio, as 
described in ICH Q2(R2) and USP ⟨1225⟩). 
• 
Parallel testing of the test sample or in the test environment with the CMM and the AMM/RMM 
could be performed; this is most meaningful with quantitative methods when the microbiological 
methods are testing separate samples. The stakeholder should determine an appropriate number of 
test samples or a predefined testing period to obtain meaningful data (e.g., nonzero detection events 
or numerical values) to determine comparability. When non-CFU continuous-monitoring methods 
are compared with conventional growth-based episodic or single-sample methods, the number of 
test runs for the CMM may need to be increased. For example, a new active air sampler may need 
to be initiated when a prior sampler has finished its sampling; alternatively, a new agar plate is 
added to a slit-to-agar sampler to simulate “continuous” conventional sampling. 
• 
In instances where positive detection events are not expected or observed (e.g., Grade A 
environments), comparability studies may need to be evaluated where microbial recovery is 
expected (e.g., lower-classified cleanroom environments). The main goal is to determine the 
distribution or range of CFUs for the CMM based on the results of the AMM/RMM. These 
distributions can be used to determine acceptable ranges for the signal of the AMM/RMM. The 
results from both methods may be compared in the following manner: ̶
 
If signals are consistent, use regression analysis (linear, nonlinear, weighted, or Poisson 
regression) to determine a calibration model. This approach may require analyzing 
microbial concentrations across the practical range of the test instead of performing parallel 
testing on a sample. ̶
 
Compare the ratio of recovered counts between the two datasets. Demonstrate 
comparability if the same microorganism-related signals are being used for the 
AMM/RMM and the CMM, or superiority when the AMM/RMM is using a more-sensitive 
microorganism-related signal and the CMM provides a CFU signal.  ̶
 
Compare the frequency of detectable events in both methods. The stakeholder should 
define what a detectable event or OOE event is in the AMM/RMM, and what CFU levels in 
the CMM are relevant for comparability studies (which may include alert or action levels in 
the CMM). The AMM/RMM should detect at least the same frequency of detection events 
(e.g., deviations from expected baseline values in the AMM/RMM) as the CMM produces 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
69 
in OOE events. Demonstrate this using statistical tests for the comparison of proportions 
(either noninferiority or superiority).  ̶
 
Quantify the distribution of CFU counts in the CMM for each level of AMM/RMM counts. 
Based on the OOE CFU counts, an upper level on AMM/RMM counts can be translated. 
See Section 9.0 (Appendix 1) through Section 11.0 (Appendix 2) for additional guidance. 
5.4.11.3 Comparability Acceptance Criteria 
Similar acceptance criteria should be used as was used during the assessment of validation criteria in the 
primary validation when similar statistical approaches are being used. When a noninferiority statistical 
method is used, the recovery of organisms in the AMM/RMM should be noninferior to the recovery of 
organisms in the CMM. When a superiority statistical method is used, criteria for conventional hypothesis 
testing can be applied. Criteria for prediction models and setting upper-control limits should be based on the 
uncertainty of estimating the range of CFU levels, but this is usually translated to a proper number of test 
samples, batches, and/or concentration levels. See Section 9.0 (Appendix 1) through Section 11.0 
(Appendix 3) for additional guidance. 
5.4.12 Guidance on Setting Minimum Incubation Times for Growth-Based Methods 
Growth-based methods require an appropriate incubation time to ensure the recovery of microorganisms in 
the presence of the test sample and under the conditions of the test method. Minimum incubation times may 
be established from the longest TTR for challenge microorganisms determined during primary validation, 
method suitability, and/or comparability studies.  
Adding a safety factor to the longest TTR should be considered. For example, rounding up to the nearest 
whole day can be a relatively simple way to add such a safety factor. For example, if the longest TTR for a 
slow-growing microorganism is 4.6 days, then the minimum incubation time for the routine test can be 5.0 
days. 
When appropriate, a larger safety factor may be considered, for example, an extra full day may be added to 
the longest TTR. Using the same 4.6 day length of the longest TTR for a slow-growing microorganism, the 
minimum incubation time for the routine test could be 5.6 days.  
Both of these options are relatively simple to implement, and the stakeholder can justify a minimum TTR 
that is suitable for the test method and routine-use requirements.  
 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
70 
Another approach in setting a safety factor is based on the time needed for a ten-fold increase in the amount 
of incubation time for the slowest-growing organism used during validation studies. This can be calculated 
by multiplying the estimated generation time in the test media by log2(10) as illustrated in the following 
equation: 
𝑇𝑇 = 𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡+ log2(10) · 𝐺𝐺 
Where: 
T 
= 
 incubation time for microbial detection in the test sample to be examined 
        (hours (h)) 
tttr 
=  longest TTR determined during primary validation, method suitability, and/or 
       comparability studies (h) 
G  
= 
 generation time of slowest-growing microorganism (h), which may be determined by 
                    conducting separate studies or based on published literature  
Using the same example, if the slowest microorganism has a TTR of 4.6 d (110.40 h) and has a generation 
time of 1 h, the minimum time of incubation would be 110.40 + 3.32 × 1 = 113.72 h (or 4.7 d). Similarly, if 
the slowest microorganism has a TTR of 4.6 d (110.40 h) but has a longer generation time of 5 h, the 
minimum time of incubation would be 110.40 + 3.32 × 5 d = 127 h (or 5.3 d). 
Stakeholders who want to calculate their own generation times can inoculate relevant organisms in the 
alternative growth-based method and use the following equation: 
𝐺𝐺 = 
𝑡𝑡
3.3 𝑥𝑥 log 10 ቀ𝑁𝑁
𝑁𝑁0ቁ 
 
Where: 
t  
 
= 
 time interval (h) 
N   
= 
 number of cells/CFU at the end of the time interval 
N0   
= 
 number of cells/CFU at the beginning of the time interval 
Note: Depending on the output signal measured, other formulas may apply. 
5.4.13 Guidance on Changing Acceptance Criteria 
Though growth-based, CMM provide results in terms of a CFU, which could arise from a single cell or 
multiple cells. Some AMM/RMMs will provide results or signals that are different from the CFU (e.g., a 
viable cell count, a spectral analysis, relative light units, fluorescent units, etc.). As such, these 
AMM/RMMs could potentially produce superior results (e.g., higher quantitative counts) when compared 
with growth-based methods. Although strategies exist for demonstrating comparability between a non-CFU 
method and a CFU method, data derived from non-CFU methods may not align with conventional 
acceptance criteria, such as alert and action levels or specifications, because the number or rate of recovery 
in these methods may be higher (see Section 5.4.10). Accordingly, the implementation of these non-CFU 
methods may require the establishment of new acceptance criteria.  
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
71 
This is not a new concept. In a 2006 non-peer reviewed publication, the author’s concluded that new 
microbiological methods rely on a completely different body of information—some may be direct 
measurements, some indirect—and that previous acceptance criteria may not be applicable. Therefore, 
implementation of newly developed, or more rapid microbiology methods may also require the 
establishment of new acceptance criteria (86). 
The 2022 revision of EU GMP Annex 1 allows AMM/RMMs, instead of growth-based, CMMs, to be used 
for EM as long as they are appropriately validated and meet the intent of providing information during steps 
when potential for contamination of the product exists. More importantly, throughout the document, the 
microbiology limits are based on the CFU and, if new technologies are used that present results in a manner 
different from the CFU, the manufacturer should scientifically justify the limits applied and, where possible, 
correlate them to the CFU (9). 
Similarly, the 2023 Swissmedicines Inspectorate publication Interpretation of GMP Annex 1 2022 (Rev. 1) 
addresses whether it is possible to fully replace microbiological monitoring using settle plates and 
volumetric air-sampling systems by other integrated sampling and testing systems, such as AMM/RMM. 
The document states that the equivalence of methods should be demonstrated, and the effectiveness of the 
chosen method should be proven. Additionally, for the use of real-time viable particle-counting and given 
the nonequivalence of autofluorescent unit versus CFUs and current GMP pharmacopeial limits are in 
CFUs, the company needs to collect data on their process for the real-time viable particle-counting to 
compare it to the standard EM data (87). However, consideration should be given to the environments in 
which these studies are performed, as some samples will provide microbial recoveries (e.g., Grade C and D, 
or controlled, non-classified areas) while other environments may not (e.g., Grade A and B areas), in which 
case alternative strategies may be used, including trending of zero to non-zero results. Additional guidance 
is provided in Section 11.0 (Appendix 3). 
AMM/RMMs that do not provide results as a CFU signal, are not based on the growth of microorganisms, 
or are more sensitive than growth-based CMMs, may provide results that are numerically superior (higher) 
than the CMM being compared. For these reasons, acceptance criteria historically based on the CFU, such 
as EM alert and action levels or microbial specifications, may need to be changed to reflect the recovered 
counts using the non-CFU method. 
Establishing a numerical relationship between a non-CFU signal method to a CFU method may be possible 
but only if the data can be correlated mathematically. For example, if the non-CFU signal is always five 
times greater than the CFU method numerical values, then a 5X correlation factor may be used to establish 
new acceptance levels. However, when a direct correlation between numerical values cannot be 
demonstrated across the practical range of the test, across different sample matrices, different 
microorganisms, or across different environmental areas, a general correlation may not be possible. In this 
case, setting new acceptance levels for the AMM/RMM should be considered. 
Understanding the AMM/RMM’s baseline measurements, similar to those described for comparability 
studies, may be useful in establishing new acceptance levels, as recoveries considered to be “normal” would 
not necessarily be treated as an OOE detection event. Where numerical baseline measurements indicate the 
normal background noise in the absence of a test sample, these measurements may be subtracted from the 
test sample measurements, when justified.  
The most conservative approach is to continue to use the existing CFU levels and extend this to data derived 
from using the AMM/RMM. For example, if an AMM/RMM demonstrates a normal baseline for 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
72 
continuous EM as 0 CFU/m3, then excursions to this baseline may indicate an OOE event. Separately, if an 
AMM/RMM indicates occasional recovery events over the course of some monitored period of time, then 
these data should be used to establish the normally expected baseline. Using this information can help to 
establish new acceptance criteria that can be related to the historical control measures using a conventional 
CFU method. In this instance, the results from the AMM/RMM are used to make a quality decision about 
the test result. This aligns with the decision-equivalence concept described in USP ⟨1223⟩. 
Stakeholders may consider the following examples of how to establish new acceptance criteria:  
• 
Set the highest AMM/RMM recovery counts as an action level when you also show the 
corresponding CFU count is at an acceptable level.  
• 
Use 97.5% and 99.5% percentiles or 2 and 3 standard deviations from the mean-AMM/RMM 
counts for alert and action levels, respectively, based on the AMM/RMM historical data (i.e., 
baseline). This may also confirm correspondence to CFU acceptable levels. 
• 
Apply trending rules to determine when an out-of-trend (OOT) result is observed, when compared 
with historical (baseline) data that may include numerical values for recovered counts and/or the 
frequency of recovery or nonzero events over some period of time. This may be most appropriate 
for a large number of test samples or monitored environments that are expected to have no or very-
low detection events. This may also be applied to higher detection events as long as the baseline is 
appropriately defined. OOT events may include the following: ̶
 
One or more points outside the established alert or control limits ̶
 
Six points in a row that are steadily increasing ̶
 
Fourteen points in a row that are alternating up and down ̶
 
An unusual or nonrandom pattern in the data, when compared with historical data ̶
 
Any combination of the above recommendations 
Discussions with relevant regulatory agencies or regulatory submissions may also be required prior to any 
changes being finalized or implemented. 
Ultimately, any changes to established specifications must be related to fitness for use and be suitable for the 
application of interest. Additionally, final specifications should be scientifically sound, justified, and based 
on an appropriate risk analysis. 
5.4.14 Ongoing Maintenance and Periodic Reviews 
Following validation of the new microbiological method and accompanying system, appropriate procedures 
should be established to maintain the system in a validated state; for example, standard operating procedures 
should be implemented, the method and accompanying system should be included in a change control 
program, and all instrumentation or equipment should be maintained in good working condition. 
Once the new method and accompanying system has completed validation, subsequent change controls 
should assess the impact of any change on the validation status of the system. Additionally, a formal 
mechanism should be put in place to periodically review the method and the accompanying system’s 
performance, as well as the overall validation program in relation to current good practices.  
A special area of concern is the preventive maintenance program, frequently handled by the supplier of 
specialized equipment. Many programs include updating system software with the most current software 
versions, extension of databases, and periodic calibration checks. It is important to ensure that appropriate 
requalification testing is performed before placing the system back into use, that the end user is cognizant of 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
73 
good practice requirements, and that they perform the maintenance accurately in addition to documenting 
the activities that were performed. The supplier should also provide information on the potential impact of 
repairs or spare-part changes, or drift in instrument performance, in order to define requalification or 
verification requirements. 
Finally, the results or outputs of this phase should feed back into the first phase of the validation process, 
namely, the risk assessment. This will ensure that the overall operation of the new method and 
accompanying system does not introduce additional quality risks associated with the lifecycle of the 
products and sample matrices that will be tested routinely. 
5.4.15 Decommissioning of Equipment 
Decommissioning is part of the equipment’s lifecycle, and it must follow the same change-control rules to 
ensure that the qualified and calibrated state is maintained until the final retirement. Decommissioning 
activities include change documentation, documentation that the equipment is in a qualified and calibrated 
status until its final use, termination of service or maintenance contracts (if applicable), archival of all 
equipment-specific documentation, electronic files and the ability to retrieve them, decontamination prior to 
retirement (if needed), update of the equipment inventory, and description of what happened to the 
equipment—whether it is stored, given away, sold, or scrapped. 
5.5 Alternative/Rapid Microbiological Methods for Mycoplasma Detection 
PDA Technical Report No. 50: Alternative Methods for Mycoplasma Testing (TR 50) describes 
mycoplasmas as “an unusual group of bacteria distinguished by the absence of a cell wall, a small genome 
size and low G + C content” and provides a table of the most significant genera, which includes pathogenic, 
saprophytic and commensal species (88, 89).  
TR 50 provides a comprehensive review of the various methods available for mycoplasma testing as well as 
describing what methods to use in evaluating the appropriateness of these methods. 
Many of the recommendations provided in this technical report may be used in support of validating an 
alternative or rapid mycoplasma method; however, reviewing the recommendations provided in TR 50 for a 
thorough understanding of what is expected is recommended. Furthermore, Eur. Ph. Chapter 2.6.7 
Mycoplasmas may provide additional guidance as it provides a detailed protocol for the primary method 
validation and the product-specific tests for interfering substances as well as a section on NAT that has been 
extensively revised to reflect the state of the art in science and technology, as of October 2025.  
5.5.1 Primary Method Validation 
The parameters of the LoD, specificity, robustness, and comparability should be assessed during the primary 
method validation as discussed in Sections 5.4.1-5.4.11. 
5.5.1.1 Limit of Detection  
For the assessment of the LoD, the lowest amount of target nucleic acid in a sample that can be detected, the 
positive cut-off point is determined. The positive cut-off point is the minimum number of target sequences 
per sample-volume tested that can be detected in 95 percent of the test runs. To determine the positive cut-
off point, at least three (3) independent 10-fold dilution series of characterized and calibrated working 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
74 
strains or standards should be tested. This design, with a sufficient number of replicates at each dilution, 
gives a total number of 24 test results for each dilution which enables a statistical analysis of the results. 
The specificity of a NAT, the ability to detect unambiguously the mycoplasma target nucleic acid, depends 
on the primer and probe sequences and the stringency of the NAT conditions. Hence, the specificity 
experiments should include a range of bacterial species other than mycoplasmas, that is, microorganisms 
with a close phylogenetic relationship to mycoplasmas, such as other Gram-positive bacteria like 
Clostridium, Lactobacillus, Streptococcus, or others, to evaluate the possibility for cross-detection of the 
non-mycoplasma bacteria. 
5.5.1.2 Robustness 
The robustness of the NAT, the capacity of the NAT to remain unaffected by small, but deliberate variations 
in the method parameters, is assessed for example, by using different lots of the PCR-reagents, using 
different thermal-cycler devices, or testing of samples on different days by different analysts, to examine the 
variation between test runs. In addition, robustness of the alternative NAT can be evaluated by collaborative 
studies. 
5.5.1.3 Comparability/Equivalency Study 
To demonstrate comparability/equivalency between the culture methods, the indicator-cell culture method, 
and the NAT-based mycoplasma detection assay, cell-culture fluid should be spiked with relevant 
mycoplasma strain stocks. Based on this initially spiked sample (e.g., 100 CFU/mL), a serial tenfold dilution 
should be prepared using unspiked cell-culture fluid as diluent leading to samples spiked with 100 CFU/mL, 
10 CFU/mL, 1 CFU/mL, 0.1 CFU/mL and, if needed, 0.01 CFU/mL. All dilutions are tested using all three 
different mycoplasma detection methods in parallel without freezing the samples.  
Acceptance criteria for the comparability study:  
• 
The NAT must be able to detect at least 10 CFU/mL or less than 100 GC/mL if the NAT is planned 
as a replacement for the culture method. 
• 
The NAT must be able to detect at least 100 CFU/mL or less than 1000 GC/mL if the NAT is 
planned as a replacement for the indicator-cell culture method. 
• 
The NAT must be able to detect at least 10 CFU/mL or less than 100 GC/mL if the NAT is planned 
as a replacement for both the culture method and the indicator-cell culture method. 
5.5.2 Test for Interfering Substances/Method Suitability Testing 
For each new product or cell source, a test for interfering substances must be performed to demonstrate that 
the sample tested does not interfere with the NAT and/or the enrichment step (if applicable). Typically, 
samples from three different lots of the product to be assessed or batches of the cell-culture harvests (if 
available) are spiked with a maximum of 10 CFU/mL or 100 GC/mL and tested by the validated NAT to 
demonstrate sufficient recovery (e.g., 95%) of the target nucleic acid in the presence of the product to be 
tested. 
5.5.3 Mycoplasma Stocks and Standards 
For the primary method validation and the product-specific test for interfering substances, use of a broad 
range of mycoplasma, including challenging organisms (based on risk assessment), is recommended.  
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
75 
The selection process should consider the following: 
• 
Manufacturing process (such as use of mammalian, avian, or insect cell expression systems) 
• 
Use of mammalian or plant-derived media components  
• 
Product category (biopharmaceutical, ATMPs, or live vaccines) and the occurrence of 
contamination (based on literature or their own experience) 
Ph. Eur. Chapter 2.6.7 provides a suggestion of mycoplasma strains for validation testing based on their 
frequency of occurrence as contaminants phylogenetic relationship.  
The mycoplasma strains can be viable cultures, a preparation of nonviable whole organism derived from 
these cultures, nucleic acid standards (e.g., the WHO International Standard for mycoplasma DNA for 
nucleic acid amplification technique-based assays designed for generic mycoplasma detection), or assay 
control plasmids. Positive control cultures should not be more than 15 passages from isolation, enumerated 
(harvested during the exponential phase of growth to guarantee a high viability of the culture and titered in 
CFU prior to freezing), and characterized using both the supernatant and cellular fractions, for genomic 
copies (GC), that is, their GC/CFU ratio. A GC/CFU ratio of the reference preparations of less than 10 is 
normally accepted by the relevant authorities; higher values must be justified. 
The selection of the mycoplasma standard or reference material should be appropriate to the detection 
technology employed and should reflect the complete analytical workflow, including any pre-treatment or 
pre-processing steps (e.g., filtration, enrichment, nucleic acid extraction, lysis, concentration, or inactivation 
procedures). For culture-based methods, viable organisms are generally required to evaluate growth 
characteristics and recovery. For NAT or other molecular-based assays, nucleic acid standards or 
appropriately characterized inactivated preparations may be suitable. When pre-processing steps are part of 
the validated method, the chosen standard should allow assessment of the entire method performance, not 
solely the detection step.
 
 
 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.
