 Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) © 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
76 
6.0 Implementation: Guidance on Secondary-Site Commissioning 
Versus Initial Validation 
Section 6.0 provides an overview and points to consider for transferring a validated AMM/RMM from a 
primary validation site to a secondary site. For the purposes of this document, the “primary validation site” 
is defined as the site performing the initial validation of the AMM/RMM, including equipment qualification 
and method validation. The “secondary site” is defined as the site to which the method is transferred.  
6.1 Guidance for the Transfer of an Alternative/Rapid Microbiological 
Method from a Primary Validation Site to a Secondary Validation Site 
The first time an AMM/RMM is qualified, it is expected that a comprehensive validation plan, as that 
recommended in TR 33, is appropriately performed. When the AMM/RMM is transferred from a primary 
validation site to a secondary site (e.g., testing or manufacturing facility), a copy of the original validation 
package should be provided to the secondary site. Each new installation must be separately evaluated to 
determine the extent of additional IQ, OQ, PQ, or method validation testing that may need to be performed. 
As part of the installation, qualification, and method transfer activities at the secondary site, all necessary 
training will be conducted, relevant procedures will be written and approved, and maintenance and 
calibration programs will be developed prior to performing the analyst qualification and subsequent routine 
use. 
6.2 Equipment Installation and Operational Qualification at the Secondary 
Site 
When an identical technology is installed at the secondary site, it is expected that a standard equipment IQ 
and OQ will be performed following the original qualification package (see Section 5.2.8 and Section 
5.2.9). However, if the AMM/RMM is used at a secondary site for a different purpose or in a different 
manner (e.g., standalone or LIMS integrated) than at the primary site, additional IQ, OQ and method 
validation may be needed. There may also exist environmental or physical conditions related to the 
secondary location that could warrant additional qualification or validation considerations, such as extremes 
in altitude, relative humidity, or temperature.  
6.3 Equipment Performance Qualification at the Secondary Site 
Because an exhaustive microbiological testing plan will be completed during method validation at the 
primary site, when a like-for-like instrument (e.g., the exact same model and components with the exact 
same version numbers for all software, microprocessors, and computers) is installed, it may not be necessary 
for the secondary site to repeat this testing in its entirety. However, it is recommended that a reduced 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.

Technical Report No. 33 (Revised 2026) 
© 2026 Parenteral Drug Association, Inc. 
77 
microbiological challenge from the original PQ, in addition to representative isolates recovered at the 
secondary site, be performed to demonstrate that the system is operating as intended. A review of locally 
recovered microbial isolates should indicate if the reference strains used during the qualification performed 
at the primary site are representative of the isolates recovered at the secondary site. If they are not, then the 
qualification plan should include a list of microbial isolates to be evaluated and what qualification 
requirements they will be tested against. Additionally, it may be appropriate to determine if the original 
qualification will meet current GMPs and internal requirements, taking into consideration the date the 
original qualification was completed.  
6.4 Implementation of the Alternative/Rapid Microbiological Method at 
the Secondary Site 
Method suitability in the presence of product must be repeated at the secondary site to demonstrate that the 
method will provide the expected results when performed by the analysts at the secondary site. As part of 
the method suitability test, local isolates from the secondary site (if it is a secondary manufacturing site), 
especially those that were not tested at the primary site, must be included. See Section 5.3.2 for further 
information on method suitability. 
Once the AMM/RMM has been successfully installed and qualified for use at a secondary site and required 
regulatory approval is obtained, the system may be used routinely.  
In the event the secondary site intends to qualify the same instrument for use with a new product or process 
material that was not assessed by the primary site, a risk assessment should be performed to determine if a 
full-method validation, including method suitability testing and comparability testing, is required to be 
performed (see Section 5.2.1). Section 5.3 discusses the use of test plans and acceptance criteria.  
  
 
Licensed to Kuo, Li-Hung/Amaran Biotechnology, Inc.: Copying and Distribution Prohibited.
